<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Approach</title>
	<body>
		<p>HL7's Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) has been chosen to define the format
		and structure of the subject data report.  The goal is to use a widely accepted
		approach to supporting clinical data that is sufficiently expressive to support the 
		wide range of data requirements seen in the study setting.  However, there are data 
		requirements of subject data reporting that require adding extensions to CDA.  The process
		for accomplishing this is discussed below. </p>
		<p>Use of the MDHT tool set makes it easier to get the desired
		Implementation Guide content into a form that can be presented as a
		document.  At the same time, given the development perspective of the tool
		set, it is also possible to work directly with the set of Java classes
		that are created by the tooling to assist in implementing the application artifacts
		that are needed in order to create and receive compliant XML instances. It is expected
		that the data structures created in the process of building the Implementation Guide will
		be useful to implementers.</p>
		
		<p>This project supports reusability and ease of data collection
			through a standard data representation harmonized with work developed
			by the CDISC Submission Data Standards Team.  The content of the Implementation
			Guide (IG) draws heavily from CDISC's SEND Implementation Guide.  That document was used as 
			a source of data items, and for descriptive material to characterize many of the items.
			The content will be accepted by FDA as a recognized format for data submissions. It is 
			under consideration for balloting as a Draft Standard for Trial Use through Health
			 Level Seven (HL7).</p>
			 
			 <p>Coded concepts used within this guide are managed by the National Cancer Institute using its Enterprise
			 Vocabulary Services (EVS).</p>
		
			 <p>This Implementation Guide specifies a standard for electronic
			submission of human clinical trial subject data reports in a 
			Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format.  CDA is an Health Level 7 Version 3 
			specification.  It uses a schema and data structure defined by the CDA specification and by the HL7
			Reference Information Model. The formatting of data within the structure 
			rests on the HL7 Data Types Release 1 specification.  Refer to the HL7 Normative Edition 
			for more information on these topics. </p>
			

	</body>
</topic>
