<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Scope</title>
	<body>
		<p>This specification covers the provision of live birth and fetal death reporting data to the applicable
		 jurisdictional Vital Records Office.  The guide focuses on the use case describing the communication of
		  that portion of the record collected by electronic health record systems to state/jurisdictional vital
		   record offices. It includes optional acknowledgments of receipt of transactions. The goal of the use
		    case is to provide safe, reliable delivery of relevant clinical information to vital records. The use case does not
		        cover the data that is reported by the mother, or in the case of fetal death, by the funeral director.
		        This use case is not intended to cover reporting to national public health agencies such as NCHS.
         </p>
         
         <p>The implementation guide has been structured for consistency with the IHE (Interconnecting the Health
         Enterprise)Health Birth Summary draft document. That document, which is a supplement to the IHE Quality,
          Research and Public Health Technical Framework, identifies a way for clinical information captured within
          a fully coded electronic health record environment to be represented in a format consistent with US Vital
          Records standards.  Our expectations is that organizations which implement support for the IHE Health Birth
          Summary will find it natural and straightforward to format that data as defined within this implementation
           guide. </p>

<p>This guide calls for specific vocabulary standards for managing live birth and fetal death reporting information.
  Use of standard vocabularies is important for a number of reasons.  Use of standard vocabularies allows broad
   distribution of healthcare information without the need for individual institutions to exchange master files
    for data such as test codes, result codes, etc.  Each institution maps its own local vocabularies to the
     standard code, allowing information to be shared broadly, rather than remaining isolated as a single island
      of information.</p>
      
      <p>The following use case provides a common scenario of how birth and fetal death events are recorded in
       a birthing hospital.  For the birth record, prenatal care and pregnancy history information, such
        as the mother’s last menstrual period (LMP), are obtained from the mother’s prenatal records which are
         sent to the hospital by the prenatal care provider prior to the mother’s estimated delivery date. 
         Information about the labor and delivery and the infant (e.g., a spontaneous vaginal delivery of a 
         girl weighing 3,242 grams) is documented by the nurse in the hospital’s labor and delivery (L&amp;D) log. 
         Information about the labor and delivery and the newborn to be collected for the birth record is 
         also documented by the nurse in the Facility Worksheet for the Child’s Birth Certificate. The 
         Pediatrician documents the physical assessment in the newborn’s medical record and the nurse then 
         completes the newborn information sections of the Facility Worksheet.</p>  
         
         <p>The Birth Information Specialist (BIS), the hospital staff person responsible for gathering and 
         entering information for the birth certificate, checks the hospital’s information system for a list 
         of all new births. She prints a copy of the list and takes it to the L&amp;D unit where she picks up the 
         Facility Worksheet completed by the Nurse. The BIS then goes to the Mother’s room and presents her 
         with a packet of information and several forms to complete. One of the forms, called the Mother’s 
         Worksheet for the Child’s Birth Certificate, collects important demographic information on the 
         mother and father. The BIS helps the Mother complete the Mother’s Worksheet. The BIS reviews the 
         Facility Worksheet for completeness. If a section has not been completed, she reviews the L&amp;D log, 
         mother’s prenatal care and other medical records for the required information.  If necessary, she 
         calls the prenatal care provider for more information. </p>
         
         <p>The BIS then enters the information from the Mother’s and Facility worksheets into the State’s 
         web-based Electronic Birth Registration System (EBRS). At the time of data entry, the EBRS performs 
         field edits and cross-field edits that are pre-programmed into the system. Once the record “passes” 
         all validations, the BIS submits the record to the state for registration. The birth record is then 
         automatically transmitted over a secure Internet connection to the State Office of Vital Records.</p>
         
         <p>The vital records registrar reviews a list of newly transmitted birth records received from birthing
          facilities around his state. If there are records that have not passed all edits, he contacts the hospital
           and requests that they correct and retransmit the birth record. The hospital corrects the birth record
            and retransmits. Once the birth record has passed all edits, the vital records registrar registers the
             baby’s birth and the mother is provided with a certified copy of the birth certificate on request.</p>
             
             <p>The process of collecting information at the hospital for the fetal death report is similar to that
              for birth. The labor and delivery nurse enters information in the medical records and completes the
               Facility Worksheet. The BIS is responsible for gathering and entering information into the Electronic
                Fetal Death Registration System (EFDRS) for the fetal death report. She first checks the hospital’s
                 information system and learns about the mother’s loss.  She obtains the completed Facility Worksheet
                  from the nurse and helps the mother complete the Patient’s Worksheet. She may also contact the
                   prenatal care provider to obtain the Mother’s prenatal care information and the obstetrician to
                    enter the cause of death in the system. </p>
                    
                    <p>The hospital of birth will serve as the Content Creator for the mother’s and infant’s medical
                     record. A Form Filler may serve to pre-populate this information utilizing the standard Facility
                      Worksheet format. The Health Birth Summary will provide the medical information for an
                       Electronic Data Capture System such as a Form Receiver. The Form Receiver will ensure
                        adherence to the Birth and Fetal Death Reporting (BFDRpt) specifications for consistency 
                        with the requirements in the detailed specifications for the birth certificate and fetal
                         death report. The Electronic Data Capture System must also allow for manual edits to the
                          pre-populated data and any additional information needed for vital registration purposes
                           before the data is transmitted to the public health authorities and potentially other
                            vital records stakeholders.      </p>
	</body>
</topic>
