<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Comment - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This module contains a comment to be supplied for any other entry Content Modules.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/Comment.dita">IHE Comment</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.2</tt>) (C83-[DE-10-CDA-3])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>author</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains CDA Author (C83-[DE-10-CDA-4])</li></ol><ul><li>The author of a comment is recorded as specified for authors in the Information Source module.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Data elements defined elsewhere in the specification SHALL NOT be recorded using the Comments Module. (C83-[DE-10-CDA-1])<ul><li>Comments are free text data that cannot otherwise be recorded using data elements already defined by this specification. They are not to be used to record information that can be recorded elsewhere. For example, a free text description of the severity of an allergic reaction would not be recorded in a comment. Instead, it would be recorded using the data element defined in Allergy/Drug Sensitivity.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Act</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/Comment.dita">CCD Comment</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.40</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/Comment.dita">IHE Comment</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.2</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "ACT" (CONF-504)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-505)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "48767-8" <i>Annotation comment</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC) (CONF-506, CONF-507)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus) (CONF-6.3.4.6.8)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt>author</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains CDA Author</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>author</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains CDA Author (C83-[DE-10-CDA-4])</li></ol><ul><li>The author of a comment is recorded as specified for authors in the Information Source module.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A related statement is made about another section or entry. In CDA the former shall be recorded inside an &lt;entryRelationship&gt; element occurring at the end of the entry. The containing entry is the subject (typeCode='SUBJ') of this comment, which is the inverse of the normal containment structure, thus inversionInd='true'. (CONF-6.3.4.6.3)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The 'text' element contains a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative text section of the CDA, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity. (CONF-6.3.4.6.7)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time of the comment creation is recorded in the 'time' element when the 'author' element is present. (CONF-6.3.4.6.10)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The identifier of the author, and their address and telephone number must be present inside the 'id', 'addr' and 'telecom' elements when the 'author' element is present. (CONF-6.3.4.6.11)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The author's and/or the organization's name must be present when the 'author' element is present. (CONF-6.3.4.6.12)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Data elements defined elsewhere in the specification SHALL NOT be recorded using the Comments Module. (C83-[DE-10-CDA-1])<ul><li>Comments are free text data that cannot otherwise be recorded using data elements already defined by this specification. They are not to be used to record information that can be recorded elsewhere. For example, a free text description of the severity of an allergic reaction would not be recorded in a comment. Instead, it would be recorded using the data element defined in Allergy/Drug Sensitivity.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.40" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Comment"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.2" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Comment"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11" assigningAuthorityName="HITSP Comment"/>
              <code code="48767-8" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Annotation comment"/>
              <text/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
