<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Vital Sign - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Organizer: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.14</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Organizer</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.14"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>
These entries are used to record current and relevant historical vital signs for the patient. Vital Signs are a subset of <b><i>Results Section</i></b>, but are reported in this section to follow clinical conventions.
</p>

<p>
The differentiation between Vital Signs and Results varies by clinical context. Common examples of vital signs include temperature, height, weight, blood pressure, etc. However, some clinical contexts may alter these common vitals, for example in neonatology "height" may be replaced by "crown-to-rump" measurement.
</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/VitalSignsOrganizer.dita">IHE Vital Signs Organizer</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.1</tt>) (C83-[DE-14-CDA-2])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.62 Vital Sign Result Value Set STATIC 1 (C154-[DE-14.03-1])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Data Element Definitions for Results [Placeholder]<ul><li>Vital Signs are a subset of Results Section, but are reported in this section to follow clinical conventions.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Organizer</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ResultOrganizer.dita">CCD Result Organizer</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.32</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/VitalSignsOrganizer.dita">CCD Vital Signs Organizer</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.35</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/VitalSignsOrganizer.dita">IHE Vital Signs Organizer</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.1</tt>)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "CLUSTER" (6.3.4.21.2)<ul><li><p>
The vital signs organizer is a cluster of vital signs observations.
</p></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-394)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus STATIC V3NE08) (6.3.4.21.6)<ul><li>The observations have all been completed.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ResultObservation.dita">CCD Result Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>) (CONF-405)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..*] <tt>specimen</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains CDA Specimen (CONF-399)</li></ol><ul><li>Should be included if the specimen isn't inherent in code value.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>id</tt> (6.3.4.21.4)<ul><li>The organizer shall have an &lt;id> element.</li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.62 Vital Sign Result Value Set STATIC 1 (C154-[DE-14.03-1])</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt> (6.3.4.21.7)<ul><li>The effective time element shall be present to indicate when the measurement was taken.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/VitalSignObservation.dita">IHE Vital Sign Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2</tt>) (6.3.4.21.9)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>author</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains CDA Author (6.3.4.21.8)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for 'code' in a result organizer SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and MAY be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12) or ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.20.16 ResultTypeCode STATIC. (CONF-398)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The specimen element SHALL NOT conflict with the specimen inherent in code (CONF-400)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: specimen / specimenRole / id SHOULD be set to equal a Procedure / specimen / specimenRole / id to indicate that the Results and the Procedure are referring to the same specimen. (CONF-401)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more component (CONF-402)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.component-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: The target of one or more result organizer component relationships MAY be a procedure, to indicate the means or technique by which a result is obtained, particularly if the means or technique isn't inherent in code or if there is a need to further specialize the code value. (CONF-403)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: A result organizer component / procedure MAY be a reference to a procedure described in the Procedure section. (CONF-404)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-406)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-387)<ul><li>A vital signs organizer SHALL contain one or more sources of information, as defined in section <b><i>Source</i></b>.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: ccd::ResultOrganizer template ID (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.32) is included (6.3.4.21.3)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.templateId-&gt;exists(id : datatypes::II | id.root ='2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.32')</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Data Element Definitions for Results [Placeholder]<ul><li>Vital Signs are a subset of Results Section, but are reported in this section to follow clinical conventions.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Result Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Simple Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Vital Sign Observation"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.14" assigningAuthorityName="HITSP Vital Sign"/>
              <id root="ab637f71-bb7e-4568-b071-16a1b7c338e3"/>
              <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <entryRelationship>
                <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Result Observation"/>
                  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Simple Observation"/>
                  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Vital Sign Observation"/>
                  <id root="18288c33-5b42-4e6b-b0d5-02d1dd54b697"/>
                  <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
                  <statusCode code="completed"/>
                  <effectiveTime>
                    <low value="1972"/>
                    <high value="2008"/>
                  </effectiveTime>
                  <value xsi:type="PQ"/>
                  <interpretationCode/>
                  <methodCode/>
                  <targetSiteCode/>
                </observation>
              </entryRelationship>
              <entryRelationship>
                <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Result Observation"/>
                  <id root="cd812b92-4773-4f5d-b6aa-968e67d2f392"/>
                  <code/>
                  <statusCode/>
                  <effectiveTime>
                    <low value="1972"/>
                    <high value="2008"/>
                  </effectiveTime>
                  <interpretationCode/>
                  <methodCode/>
                </observation>
              </entryRelationship>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
