<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Public Health Case Report</title>
<shortdesc conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/shortdesc"></shortdesc>
<prolog conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/prolog"></prolog>
<body>
<p>The CDA for PHCR constrains CDA to express the data elements identified by the CSTE
CRSWg. This PHCR CDA R2 template root defines the data elements that belong in the
header of a CDA document and prescribes the sections that belong in a generic PHCR.
The person who completes a PHCR is referred to as the reporter. This reporter is
represented with the CDA document author. This reporter is often the infection control
professional at an institution but may be any individual at a healthcare organization
who is designated to do so. The CDA legalAuthenticator is the verifier who officially
confirms the accuracy of the document. In the public health workflow this legal
authenticator may be the infection control professional who is also the author/reporter
of the reportable condition or may be another individual designated to authenticate the
report by the organization. It is required that the name and contact information of the
reporter and the legal authenticator be provided. Most sections and data elements are
optional. The clinical information section is required and contains data elements
determined by the CRSWg to be required consistently when reporting a case to the
state/local public health department. Note that state and/or local health departments
may require additional data elements, beyond those identified by the CSTE CRSWg as
required consistently across jurisdictions. Reporters must adhere to local and state
rules applicable to their location. NOTE: A generic PHCR document may be sent where
there is a case of a reportable condition for which no specific PHCR document template
has been defined. In such a case, the report shall adhere to this template.</p>
<section conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/description">
</section>
<!-- TODO: insert UML class diagram here -->

<ol audience="standards" conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/conformance">
<li></li>
</ol>
<ol audience="developer" conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/aggregate">
<li></li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<!-- <section conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/tableconformance">
</section>-->
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
<p><b>Public Health Case Report example</b></p>
<!-- TODO: insert custom instance example here -->
<!-- generated instance example follows -->
<!-- <codeblock conref="generated/_PublicHealthCaseReport.dita#classId/example">
</codeblock>-->
</body>
</topic>
