<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Approach</title>
	<body>
	
					<p>The document focuses on
			 the use case describing the communication of that portion of the birth record or fetal death report
			  collected by clinicians to appropriate local, state, and territorial vital
			   statistics agencies using the HL7 Clinical Document Architecture. The goal
			    of the implementation guide is to provide safe, reliable delivery of 
			    relevant clinical information to vital records. The use case supported by 
			    this implementation guide does not cover the data that is reported in 
			    Electronic Birth Registration Systems (EDRS). For fetal death reporting,
			    the use case does not preclude medical examiners from 
			    using EHRs as a primary source for some of the clinical data that may be 
			    transmitted to an EDRS. </p>
			    
			    <p>This use case is not intended to cover reporting to national public
			     health agencies (NCHS).</p>
			     
			     <p>The following assumption is a precondition for the use of this 
                 implementation guide: The data requirements for clinician supplied live birth or
                 fetal death
                  information are to be completed by the medical certifier according
                   to the Edit Specifications for the U.S. Standard Certificate of Live Birth, or the
                   US Standard Report of Fetal Death.. 
                   The applicable jurisdiction may have additional data requirements and edit
                    specifications that will be addressed at the jurisdictional level.</p>
                    
                      <p>The implementation guide has been developed with a primary reference to documentation 
                      created by the National Center for Health Statistics (CDC-NCHS).  Content has been drawn from:
                      <ul>
                      <li>US Standard Certification of Live Birth, Revised 11/2003</li>
                      <li>US Standard Report of Fetal Death, Revised 11/2003 </li>
                      <li>Facility Worksheet for the Live Birth Certificate, Final 2/5/04</li>
                      <li>Facility Worksheet for the Report of Fetal Death, Final 2/5/04</li>
                      <li>Birth Edit Specifications for the 2003 Proposed Revision of the US Standard Certificate
                      of Birth, (5/2004)</li>
                      <li>Guide to Completing the Facility Worksheets for the Certificate of Live Birth and Report
                      of Fetal Death, 2003 revision (Updated March 2012)</li>
                      </ul>
                       </p>
                      
         <p>It is expected that electronic health record systems that provide data for inclusion within clinical documents
         conformant to this implementation guide, may use the IHE (Interconnecting the Healthcare Enterprise) Birth and Fetal 
         Death Reporting (BFDR) technical framework supplement as a guide to extracting the data. Therefore, we have sought to 
         organize sections within this document, both to reflect the organization of the Facility Worksheets, and to correspond
         to the BFDR document. References to the corresponding IHE data structure will be provided where relevant.
                       </p>
                       </body>
         	<topic id="C-CDA">
		<title>Relationship to C-CDA</title>              
                       
                       <body>
           
           <p>We have also used HL7's consolidated CDA (C-CDA) as a point of reference for developing the templates used within
           this guide.  However, the focus of the reporting is rather different from that in the C-CDA documents: those provide an open
           structure to allow clininians to record relevant data for patient care across a wide range of institutional settings, while
           birth and fetal death reporting address a constrained data set whose content is tailord to the specific needs of vital statistics.
           As a result, it was only possible to draw upon a few of the templates created for C-CDA.  The descriptions of individual templates
           touch on their relationship to C-CDA where appropriate.</p>
          </body>
           </topic>
                            
         	<topic id="Vocabulary">
		<title>Standard Vocabulary</title>  
<body>
<p>This guide calls for specific vocabulary standards for managing live birth and fetal death reporting information.
  Use of standard vocabularies is important for a number of reasons.  Use of standard vocabularies allows broad
   distribution of healthcare information without the need for individual institutions to exchange master files
    for data such as test codes, result codes, etc.  Each institution maps its own local vocabularies to the
     standard code, allowing information to be shared broadly, rather than remaining isolated as a single island
      of information.</p>
      </body>
      </topic>
              
      
              
		
</topic>
