<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		<p>This document defines the data requirements for using the HL7 Clinical Document Architecture for
		 reporting the experience of subjects within a clinical trial.  It has been decisively influenced by
		 the CDISC SDTM Implementation Guide, and draws some descriptive material directly from that document. Code
		 sets defined by CDISC - and managed within the NCI Enterprise vocabulary Services (EVS) will be used whenever possible.</p>

					
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>

		<p> <i>The statement of HL7 copyright is left in pending decision on how to maange the document. </i>No part
		 of the material may be copied or reproduced in any form outside of the Interoperability
			Specification documents, including an electronic retrieval system, or
			made available on the Internet without the prior written permission
			of Health Level Seven, Inc. Copies of standards referred to in this
			Interoperability Specification may be purchased from the Health Level
			Seven, Inc. Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
