<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Overview</title>
	<body>
		<p>A subject data report captures information regarding the experience of 
			a subject within a study or trial.  This implementation guide provides a format for using HL7's Clinical
 Document Architecture to report on the experience of human subjects within a clinical
 trial.  It is intended that this guide can be used to address the full breadth of the
 data reporting for clinical trial subjects.  In particular, it will cover the functional
 scope addressed by the CDISC SEND Implementation Guide. The goal is to provide a common format, and
 a common set of semantics for reporting trial data.  Achievement of this goal will make it easier to evaluate
 the success of an individual study, and will greatly increase reviewer's and researcher's ability to compare data
  across multiple studies. </p>
 
 <p>The reader should note that
 reporting on clinical trial subjects is structured through creation of a individual CDA
 compliant document instance for each trial subject's experience.  This outcome is
 conditioned by the basic principal of CDA that an individual document normally reports
 on the experience of a single record target  (aka patient.)  A corollary of this
 principle is that the report on a clinical trial will consist of a series of clinical documents, one for each study subject. 	</p>
		<p>This Implementation Guide focuses includes the content defined
 within the SEND specification.  However, it has been constructed within a model driven environment including the data structures
 needed for reporting the results of both human and non-human studies.  Working within a single environment has reduced
  the overall effort since many data structures are shared across the two reporting traditions.  It is also expected that, use of 
  a model driven development tool will ease the task of implementation through use of tooling products beyond this guide.
  </p>

	</body>
</topic>
