<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Relevant HL7 Version 3 Material </title>
	<body>
<p> This implementation guide - as with any CDA product makes use
 of data structures defined in the HL7 RIM and in the HL7 data type
 specifications.  It also makes use of the vocabulary principles defined
 by HL7. 
</p>
		<p><b>Working with the HL7 data structures</b></p>
		<p>
Implementing and working with HL7 data structures is not always
 intuitive, and some of the types are used in particular ways for this
 Implementation Guide.  These issues are discussed below.</p>
 <p></p>
<ul>
<li><b>Working with Act Identifier</b>: Identifiers – the attribute “id” –
 are implemented with the instance identifier (II) data type.  This type has 
two properties: root – which identifies the namespace from which an 
identifier value is drawn, and extension – which carries the identifier 
itself.  Most of the identifiers used within this guide are identified as 
“sequence numbers” they are used within an SDTM or SEND domain to keep track of 
individual records, and are only meaningful within the context of a single 
report.  It would be both burdensome and unnecessary to attempt to identify 
the name space (Wikipedia: A namespace (sometimes also called a name scope) 
is an abstract container or environment created to hold a logical grouping of 
unique identifiers or symbols (i.e., names). An identifier defined in a 
namespace is associated only with that namespace. The same identifier can be 
independently defined in multiple namespaces.) for the identifier.  In such 
cases, the HL7 null indicator should be valued as “NI” – No information.  
Note, the subject data report also includes unique subject identifiers as 
well as identifiers for the study and the study sponsor.  If reporters are, 
practically speaking, unable to manage the assignment of object identifiers 
to these namespaces, it is possible to make use of a GUID, or to use a 
generic OID that indicates the type of identifier being provided. <p></p>
For example:
<codeblock id="idExample">
<![CDATA[
<id root=”1.9.9.9” extension=”12348899B”/>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note that the id element may appear in a number of different contexts,
 e.g., within observation, within role.<p></p>
</li>
<li><b>Working with Act Code</b>: A great number of the important concepts 
within subject data reporting, e.g., adverse event, subject age, whether an 
item was predefined on a CRF, a body weight observation are modeled as acts 
or as specializations of act, e.g., observation, within CDA.  In such cases, 
the attribute act.code (observation.code) is evaluated to discover what kind 
of information is being passed.  In SEND and SDTM, these items often occur as 
records within a domain with data items identified as –TESTCD = an 
identifying code, -TEST = a text or verbatim description, -MODIFY = a 
modified term for the item.  These concepts should be supported within the CD 
data type by using the CD code property for the code value. Text values which 
are simply descriptive text for a code use the display Name property, while 
verbatim text uses the original Text property. Modified terms – whether code 
or text should use the translation property of the CD type.  Note, any time a 
code value is used within the CD or CE data types, the code system the code 
is drawn from should be identified.  If the code system is centrally managed, 
within NCI EVS, the OID to be used can be looked up within this document. <p></p>
For example:
<codeblock id="codeExample1">
<![CDATA[
<code code="C66734" displayName="Domain Abbreviation" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
<codeblock id="codeExample2">
<![CDATA[
<code code="-TESTCD" displayName="TESTCD Description" codeSystem="2.9.9.9">
<originalText mediaType="text/plan">-TEST</originalText>
<translation code="-MODIFY" codeSystem="2.9.9.10"/>
</code>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note that the code element will appear within an act - observation, or procedure - or 
within an entity - person, organization, or manufactured material,
 e.g., within observation, within role.<p></p>
</li>
<li><b>Working with Physical Quantity</b>:  HL7 defines a physical quantity 
as “A dimensioned quantity expressing the result of measuring.”  There is a 
general expectation that all such quantities will use a single scheme for 
expressing units of measure – the Unified Code for Units of Measure.  
However, it is possible to refer to alternate representations of the units 
using the Physical Quantity Representation (PQR) data type. Physical 
quantities in this guide will use the PQR type, so that it is possible to 
distinguish between the use of standard and localized units of measure.
<p> HL7 recommends the use of the UCUM (Unified Codes of Measure) specification
 for use in physical quantities.  Within this guide, UCUM items are represented
  using the unit concept IDs provided by the NCI EVS.
			</p>
<p></p>
For example:
<codeblock id="valueExample">
<![CDATA[
	<value xsi:type="PQR" value="64.4625" code="C49670" displayName="MMHG"  codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
	<!-- A quantity using CDISC Units of measure  -->]]>
	</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note that quantities can be passed using either CDISC or local units of measure.  The physical
quantity usually, but not always, appears as an observation value.<p></p>
</li>
<li><b>Working with Observation Value</b>: The HL7 Reference Information 
Model uses a single attribute – observation.value – to capture the result of 
any observation.  In order to implement this attribute within an XML schema, 
it is necessary to use the xs:type property to designate the particular data 
type to be used.  Within SDTM and SEND, findings and event descriptions are 
provided as either numeric values (what HL7 would treat as a physical 
quantity given the presence of units of measure)or as character (text) 
values.  In addition, the data is characterized as original – with original 
units or locally controlled text values – or as normalized – with standard 
units of measure or “normalized” character based content.  Within the subject 
data report, multiple expressions of a result should be managed as multiple 
instances of the value attribute.  The type, numeric, physical quantity, 
coded, or text is given by the xsi:type property.  The use of standard or 
local units of measure is expressed by the OID the code system within the 
unit of measure – see below.  Similarly, the use of local or standard codes 
is indicated by the OID for the code system of the code being passed.  Note, 
all the standard codes are supported as concepts within NCI EVS. The OID for 
the EVS can be used, without exception, when NCI EVS concept IDs are being 
provided to identify the concept in question.<p></p>
For example:
<codeblock id="valueExample">
<![CDATA[
	<value xsi:type="PQR" value="64.4625" code="MMHG"   codeSystem="1.22.115"/>
	<!-- Result using original units of measure.  --> 
	<value xsi:type="PQR" value="64.4625" code="C49670" displayName="MMHG"  codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
	<!-- Result using CDISC Units of measure  -->
	<value xsi:type="ED" mediaType="text/plain">64.4625</value>]]>
	<!-- Result using a text representation -->
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note that not all of the different representations of the result are required.  Also,
the result may be a coded value as opposed to a physical quantity.<p></p>
</li>

<li><b>Working with Effective Time</b>: The HL7 effective time attribute is
 used for all varieties of acts to express the time or times of either 
relevance or occurrence.  The attribute can be used to express a time point, 
a time interval or a collection of time points (i.e., a frequency).  The 
implementation guide defines how to use this attribute to capture the 
different timing expressions currently used in subject data reporting (as 
defined for SEND and SDTM). 
<p></p>
Here is an example of a point in time.
<codeblock id="timingExample1">
<![CDATA[
<effectiveTime value="20120704"/>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Here is an example of a time interval.

<codeblock id="timingExample2">
<![CDATA[
<effectiveTime>
	<low value="19990517"/>
	<high value="19990524"/>
</effectiveTime>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Here is an example of a intervention frequency in which both the 
periodicity of the intervention and its start and stop time points are shown..
<codeblock id="codeExample1">
<![CDATA[
<effectiveTime xsi:type="SXPR_TS">
	<comp xsi:type="IVL_TS">
		<low value="1990517"/>
		<high value="1990523"/>
	</comp>
	<comp xsi:type="PIVL_TS" operator="A">
		<period value="24" unit="h"/>
	</comp>
</effectiveTime>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
These details are also where applicable for a data element.<p></p>
</li>
<li><b>Working with Interpretation Code</b>: In the HL7 RIM, the 
interpretation code “provides a qualitative interpretation of the observation”.
  The code is used, for example, with laboratory results to express the relationship
   of a result to the normal values.  However, it also used more broadly within subject
    data reporting to express the notions of baseline flag, derived value flag, and
     exclusion flag that are seen in SDTM and SEND.
</li>
</ul>
<p></p>
<p><b> HL7 Vocabulary Concepts</b></p>
<p>The HL7 approach to organizing vocabulary is oriented around three concepts:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Concept Domain</b>: A named category of like concepts (a semantic type) that will be bound to one
 or more attributes in a static model whose data types are coded.  HL7 specifications define concept domains 
 for each coded attribute - in CDA these assignmens are extremely general.  The implementation guide has to 
 get more specific in order to guide implementation. <p></p>
</li>
<li><b>Code System</b>: A collection of coded concepts. each having associated designations and meanings. 
Code systems assign definite codes to individual, useful concepts.
Two key points are: 1) Effective and useful interoperability requires sharing of codes for important concepts. 2( Code
 systems are managed by a sponsoring party.  Having a unified code system managed by a single, agreed upon 
 source is a key goal for integrating subject data from studies.<p></p></li> 
<li><b>Value Set</b>: A uniquely identifiable set of valid concept representations (AKA code), where any concept
 representation can be tested to determine whether or not it is a member of the value set.   The value set lists those
 codes which are relevant to a particular purpose, it provides the specification for implementation.<p></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The Implementation Guide lists the collection of value sets needed to support subject data reporting.  Many of these - in fact
wherever feasible - are drawn from the NCI Enterprise Vocabulary Services.  However, others are listed as defined by the study
sponsor.  In these cases, it is best to think of the study sponsor as creating their own local code system for some need, perhaps a
set of exposure categories.  The value set that is used will simply be the content of that code system.  Given this double
identity, it is not necessary to define both code system and value set in cases where the collection of contained codes is identical.</p>
<p><b> Additional Vocabulary considerations</b></p>
<p>HL7's Clinical Document Architecture takes a very general
 approach to vocabulary issues.  It encourages the development of templates
 to express structures for which definite conformance rules are defined, and 
which may repeat both across documents and within a single document. The CDA 
also identifies coded attributes - those attributes whose value is expected 
to be drawn from a defined vocabulary or code set.  In addition, the CDA 
schema includes a special feature - the observation (a class drawn from the 
HL7 information model)- which can be used to convey virtually any type of 
 information.  Within the observation, the content of <i>observation code</i> 
tells you what kind of information is included, and the content of 
<i>observation value</i> gives you the information itself.  
 CDA does not, and cannot, define the types of observation which are 
relevant.</p>
		  
 <p>A key role of the implementation guide is to provide the additional 
detail that is needed.  It defines:
<ul>
<li> the set of requirements, the list of observation types that are needed.  
Each needed observation or act type will be supported within NCI EVS, and its
 content will be expressed as an EVS concept code within the subject data document. <p></p>
</li>
<li>the collection of value sets(code tables) needed to properly define 
allowable values for the coded attributes used for conveying study subject.  Some
 of the value sets that are used are centrally managed, and are housed – or to be 
 housed – within the NCI EVS. Others are supplied by the study sponsor 
data. <p></p>
</li>
</ul>
The vocabulary section of the guide is designed to meet these two requirements.  
The vocabulary items not left to study sponsors are managed
 by NCI within the EVS Thesaurus.  NCI EVS will provide a file for the Subject Data 
 Report user community to be located at: 
  <xref href="http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/cancerlibrary/terminologyresources/fda."/>
  
   Material at this site will contain all pertinent CDISC terminology subsets as well as 
   additional value sets as needed.  This material is available for download 24/7 
   and updates to terminology will be completed by the NCI EVS team.   NC EVS 
   currently provides terminology in Excel and Text formats.
</p>
<p>The consistent use of vocabularies - of code systems and value sets - by study 
data submitters greatly improves the usefulness of the data, and makes it possible
to compare data across submissions.  However, there are situations in which the defined
value set does not contain all the needed concepts.  For this reason, the value sets used
within this guide have been defined as extensible value sets.  This means that data 
submitters are expected to use the given value set wherever possible.  However the value set can
be extended - additional code values may be provided when needed.</p>
</body>
</topic>
