<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Organization of This Guide</title>
	<body>
		<p>
			The requirements as laid out in the body of this document are subject
			to change per the policy on implementation guides (see section 13.01"
			Informative Documents" within the HL7 Governance and
			Operations Manual,
			<xref format="pdf"
				href="http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/membership/HL7_Governance_and_Operations_Manual.pdf">http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/membership/HL7_Governance_and_Operations_Manual.pdf
			</xref>
			).
		</p>
	</body>
	<topic id="templates">
		<title>Templates</title>
		<body>
			<p>Templates are organized by document (see Document Templates), by
				section (see Section Templates), and by clinical statements (see
				Clinical Statement Templates). Within a section, templates are
				arranged hierarchically, where a more specific template is nested
				under the more generic template that it conforms to. See Templates
				by Containment for a listing of the higher level templates by
				containment; the appendix Templates Used in This Guide includes a
				table of all of the templates Organized Hierarchically.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="vocabulary">
		<title>Vocabulary and Value Sets</title>
		<body>
			<p>Vocabularies recommended in this guide are primarily standard vocabularies
recommended by the HITSP for use in the particular domains. In many cases these
vocabularies are further constrained into value sets for use within this guide or were
previously constrained into value sets by the CDC and maintained in PHIN VADS for
use in the Public Health domain. PHIN VADS is the vocabulary server that this
implementation guide is currently using, but PHIN VADS use is not a requirement for
the CDA for PHCR. It is possible that the vocabulary hosting may shift to a different
server later if so desired. In addition, while PHIN VADS is hosting the vocabulary, the
contents of the dynamically bound value sets are subject to external (e.g., CSTE)
governance.</p>
		<p>PHIN VADS is based upon Whitehouse E-Gov Consolidated Health Informatics (CHI)
domain recommendations and its main purpose is to distribute the vocabulary subsets
that are needed for public health. PHIN VADS allows implementers to browse, search,
and download the value sets associated with an implementation guide. PHIN VADS has
the capability to host multiple versions of value sets and implementation guide
vocabulary. PHIN VADS provides vocabulary metadata that are needed for HL7
messaging or CDA implementation. The latest version of any value set referenced in this
implementation guide can be obtained from the CDC PHIN VADS
[http://phinvads.cdc.gov].</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
</topic>
