<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Scope</title>
	<body>
		<p>The CDA for PHCR constrains CDA to meet the requirements of Public Health Case
Reports for reportable conditions. Reportable conditions are those considered to be of
great public health importance. Local and state agencies require that such conditions
be reported when they are identified by providers or laboratories. Public Health Case
Reports are reports of these conditions sent to local and state public health
departments from providers. The scope of this project and this implementation guide is
limited to the reporting flow from the provider to the local or state public health
departments and NOT the verification process or the reporting of a confirmed condition
to the national public health system (CDC). The common data elements were chosen by the 
CRSWg. These are modeled in a set of modular definitions
(templates) reusable across forms and conformant with design patterns established for
EHRs and interoperable data exchange. These reusable pieces are documented in the
format required for HL7 ballot and in a database that will ensure consistency, optimize
reuse, and lay the foundation for extensibility. The database is a catalogue of the
templates designed for this project.</p>

		<p>The CRSWg identified approximately 300 common data elements associated with public
health reportable condition forms across the United States. These data elements were
stratified as non-condition specific and condition specific. Each element was further
identified as core (should be included) vs. extended data elements (may also be
included). A handful of core data elements are required to be present in all reports: the
date of report, the reporter's name, the telephone and address of the reporter, and the
name of the condition. This is the minimum information necessary to route the report
to the appropriate public health agency/program, and to allow an investigator to
contact the reporter to begin an investigation.</p>

		<p>From the perspective of this implementation guide, required core data elements and
required CDA constructs (such as document id and document creation time) are to be
present in all reports. The guide defines the templates (required and optional) and
indicates how those templates are organized into documents, sections, and entries to
construct valid PHCR instances. Each state and/or local health department will
determine which of the core data elements they require versus simply request, if any.</p>

		<p>NOTE: The exact method by which a CDA instance is packaged and exchanged is
outside the scope of the CDA standard. Please refer to section 3 of the CDA base
standard HL7 CDA, Release 2.0 “CDA Document Exchange in HL7 Messages”. Note
that the public health reporting workflow requires that the time the document is sent be
captured in the exchange message.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
