<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
				
		
				<p>This guide was developed and produced under the guidance of the Centers for Disease
				 Control and Prevention/National Center for Health Statistics (CDC/NCHS) through the
				  collaboration of the CDC/NCHS/Division of Vital Statistics (DVS); CDC/NCHS/Classifications
				   and Public Health Data Standards Staff (CPHDSS). Vital records stakeholders from the
				    National Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems (NAPHSIS)
				     and representatives from states Departments of Health Vital Records offices
				      provided subject matter expertise and technical review.</p>

		<p>The editors appreciate the support and sponsorship of the Health Level Seven (HL7) HL7 Public Health
		 and Emergency Response Work Group (PHER WG) and the Structured Documents Work Group (SDWG). </p>
		 
		 <p>This material contains content from SNOMED CT&#174; (http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/). SNOMED CT
		  is a registered trademark of the International Health Terminology Standard Development Organisation (IHTSDO).</p>
		
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>
			
			<p>
Copyright &#169; 2013 Health Level Seven International &#174; ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. The reproduction of this material
 in any form is strictly forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.  HL7 and Health Level
  Seven are registered trademarks of Health Level Seven International. Reg. U.S. Pat &amp; TM Off.
</p>
<p>Use of this material is governed by HL7's IP Compliance Policy
			</p>
	
	</body>
</topic>
