<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Audience</title>
	<body>
	<p>Normative Ballot Concerns</p>
	
	<p>We are pleased to offer the EMS PCR implementation guide for normative ballot. A team of 
	implementers has participated in the DSTU period, including ESO Solutions, Intermedix, Medusa 
	Medical, Zoll, BeyondLucid, EMSpic, and ImageTrend, as well as the NEMSIS Technical Assistance 
	Center.</p>

    <p>Zoll has performed two implemenations. The first, at a customer conference, was the creation 
    of test instances (level 1 and 3) from the integrator's software, transmission to a test 
    recipient, and review of the contents on the receiving system. As the recipient was not an EHR, 
    record integration was not possible. We hope that the maturation of the standard will draw more 
    interest from the EHR community.</p>

    <p>The second is the production implementation of level one transmissions from Poudre Valley EMS 
    to the University Health system in Fort Collins, Colorado. This implementation includes automated 
    matching of patient identifiers and import to Epic's patient chart media tab. This implementation 
    has been in operation since mid-July.</p>

    <p>The most significant DSTU-driven change to the specification during this test period has been 
    the breakout of observations into individual templates. For a complete list of changes, please 
    consult the change log in the document. Partipants used the DSTU meetings and GForge to post issues; 
    the DSTU comment site has not seen heavy use.</p>
	
		<p>Audience expectations</p>
		
		<p>The audience for this document is software developers and development organizations 
			who wish to produce or receive EMS patient care reports.</p>
		<p>Software developers should use the CDA XML schema to guide their production of EMS patient 
		care reports, subject to the constraints documented in this guide. Mappings of NEMSIS 
		elements to the CDA schema are included in this document. Coded elements should use the 
		vocabularies referred to in the constraints.</p>
		<p>The CDA schema is published by Health Level 7, and is available at 
		http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards.</p>
		<p>This guide defines the information payload only. Implementers are encouraged to coordinate with
			one another by using the IHE framework (available at http://www.ihe.net) to address
			expected capabilities of participating systems, including security and audit
			considerations.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
