<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Product Entry - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ManufacturedProduct: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.2</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ManufacturedProduct</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.2"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>
The product entry describes a medication or immunization used in a 'substanceAdministration'
or 'supply' act
</p>
<p>
In a CDA document, the name and strength of the medication are specified in the elements under
the 'manufacturedMaterial' element.
</p>
<p>
The 'code' element of the 'manufacturedMaterial' describes the medication. This may be
coded using a controlled vocabulary, such as RxNorm, First Databank, or other vocabulary
system for medications, and should be the code that represents the generic medication name and
strength (e.g., acetaminophen and oxycodone -5/325), or just the generic medication name alone
if strength is not relevant (Acetaminophen).
In a CDA document, the &lt;originalText> shall contain a 'reference' whose URI value points to
the generic name and strength of the medication, or just the generic name alone if strength is not
relevant.
</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/Product.html">CCD Product</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.53</tt>)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/Product.html">CCD Product</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.53</tt>)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF-366)
<ul><li>uniquely represents a particular kind of product</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contain exactly one manufacturedMaterial. (CONF-357)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.manufacturedMaterial.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contain exactly one manufacturedMaterial / code. (CONF-358)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.manufacturedMaterial.code.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The value for "manufacturedMaterial / code" in a product template <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from the RxNorm (2.16.840.1.113883.6.88) code system for medications, and from the CDC Vaccine Code (2.16.840.1.113883.6.59) code system for immunizations10, or <b>MAY</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.20.8 MedicationTypeCode STATIC 20061017. (CONF-359)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.manufacturedMaterial.code.codeSystem = '2.16.840.1.113883.6.88' or self.manufacturedMaterial.code.codeSystem='2.16.840.1.113883.6.59' or self.manufacturedMaterial.code.codeSystem='2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.20.8'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The value for "manufacturedMaterial / code" in a product template <b>MAY</b> contain a precoordinated product strength, product form, or product concentration (e.g. "metoprolol 25mg tablet", "amoxicillin 400mg/5mL suspension"). (CONF-360)</li>
<li>If manufacturedMaterial / code contains a precoordinated unit dose (e.g. "metoprolol 25mg tablet"), then SubstanceAdministration / doseQuantity <b>SHALL</b> be a unitless number that indicates the number of products given per administration. (CONF-361)</li>
<li>If manufacturedMaterial / code does not contain a precoordinated unit dose (e.g. "metoprolol product"), then SubstanceAdministration / doseQuantity <b>SHALL</b> be a physical quantity that indicates the amount of product given per administration. (CONF-362)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A manufacturedMaterial in a product template contains exactly one code / originalText, which represents the generic name of the product. (CONF-363)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.manufacturedMaterial.code.originalText.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A manufacturedMaterial in a product template contains exactly one name, which represents the brand name of the product. (CONF-364)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.manufacturedMaterial.name.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: contains exactly one manufacturedProduct / manufacturerOrganization, which represents the manufacturer of the Material. (CONF-365)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.manufacturerOrganization-&gt;size() = 1</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>If ManufacturedProduct in a product template contains manufacturedProduct / id, then ManufacturedProduct <b>SHOULD</b> also contain manufacturedProduct / manufacturerOrganization. (CONF-367)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.id-&gt;size() &gt; 0 implies self.manufacturerOrganization-&gt;size() &gt; 0</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >ihe::ProductEntry</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::manufacturedproduct[cda:templateId/@root = 1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.2]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>classCode</entry><entry>@classCode</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>RoleClassManufacturedProduct</entry><entry></entry><entry> MANU</entry></row> 
<row><entry>nullFlavor</entry><entry>@nullFlavor</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>NullFlavor</entry><entry></entry><entry> ASKU</entry></row> 
<row><entry>id</entry><entry>id</entry><entry>1..*</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>II</entry><entry>CONF-366</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>realmCode</entry><entry>realmCode</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CS</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>templateId</entry><entry>templateId</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>II</entry><entry></entry><entry> 1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.2</entry></row> 
<row><entry>manufacturedLabeledDrug</entry><entry>manufacturedLabeledDrug</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>LabeledDrug</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>manufacturedMaterial</entry><entry>manufacturedMaterial</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Material</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>manufacturerOrganization</entry><entry>manufacturerOrganization</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Organization</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>typeId</entry><entry>typeId</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>InfrastructureRootTypeId</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<manufacturedproduct xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.53"/>
  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.2"/>
  <id root="40193670"/>
</manufacturedproduct>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Product Entry</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[ManufacturedProduct: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.2</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
