<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Problem Status Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>Any problem or allergy observation may reference a problem status observation. The clinical status observation records information about the current status of the problem or allergy, for example, whether it is active, in remission, resolved, et cetera.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemStatusObservation.html">CCD Problem Status Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>text</b></tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> ProblemStatusValue</tt><b> STATIC</b>
</li>
<li>The 'text' elements <b>SHALL</b> contain a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative where the severity is recorded, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/StatusObservation.html">CCD Status Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.57</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemStatusObservation.html">CCD Problem Status Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="OBS" </tt><i>Observation</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF-510)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF-511)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="33999-4" </tt><i>Status</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>) (CONF-512, CONF-513)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>text</b></tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="completed" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 HL7ActStatus</tt>) (CONF-514, CONF-515)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> ProblemStatusValue</tt><b> STATIC</b>
</li>
<li>Target of an entryRelationship whose value for "entryRelationship / @typeCode" <b>SHALL</b> be "REFR" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-509)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(entry : cda::EntryRelationship | entry.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL NOT</b> contain any additional Observation attributes. (CONF-517)<ul><li>UNIMPLEMENTABLE</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL NOT</b> contain any Observation participants. (CONF-518)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.participant-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL NOT</b> be the source of any Observation relationships. (CONF-519)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.entryRelationship-&gt;select(er|not er.observation.oclIsUndefined())-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The 'text' elements <b>SHALL</b> contain a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative where the severity is recorded, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<observation xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd" classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.57"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50"/>
  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1"/>
  <id root="1720636658"/>
  <code code="33999-4" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Status"/>
  <text/>
  <statusCode code="completed"/>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2011"/>
    <high value="2011"/>
  </effectiveTime>
</observation>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
