<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Condition - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.7</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.7"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
<p><lines><i>A condition is a clinical statement that a clinician is wants to track. It has important patient management use cases (e.g., health records often present the problem list as a way of summarizing a patient's medical history).</i></lines></p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId ( C83-[DE-7-CDA-1] ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.7"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemConcernEntry.html">IHE Problem Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.2</tt>) (C83-[DE-7-CDA-2])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>SUBJ" </tt><i>SUBJ</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemEntry.html">IHE Problem Entry</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>The treating provider or providers <b>SHALL</b> be recorded in a &lt;performer&gt; element under the &lt;act&gt; that describes the condition of concern (C83-[DE-7.05-CDA-3])</li>
<li>The identifier of the treating provider <b>SHALL</b> be present in the &lt;id&gt; element beneath the &lt;assignedEntity&gt;. This identifier <b>SHALL</b> be the identifier of one of the providers listed in the healthcare providers module. (C83-[DE-7.05-CDA-2])</li>
<li>The time over which this provider treated the condition <b>MAY</b> be recorded in the &lt;time&gt; element beneath the &lt;performer&gt; element (C83-[DE-7.05-CDA-1])</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemAct.html">CCD Problem Act</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ConcernEntry.html">IHE Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemConcernEntry.html">IHE Problem Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.2</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF-146)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF-147)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF-148)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt>/@nullFlavor</tt> = "NA" <i>NA (not applicable)</i> (CONF-149)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt>, where the @code <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/ConcernEntryStatus.dita">ConcernEntryStatus</xref></tt><b> STATIC</b>
<ul><li><p><lines><i><p>
The statusCode associated with any concern must be one of the following values:
</p>
<p>
<b>active</b>: A concern that is still being tracked.
<b>suspended</b>: A concern that is active, but which may be set aside. For example, this value might be used to suspend concern
about a patient problem after some period of remission, but before assumption that the concern has been resolved.
<b>aborted</b>: A concern that is no longer actively being tracked, but for reasons other than because the problem was resolved.
This value might be used to mark a concern as being aborted after a patient leaves care against medical advice.
<b>completed</b>:
The problem, allergy or medical state has been resolved and the concern no longer needs to be tracked except for
historical purposes.
</p></i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt>
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The effectiveTime element records the starting and ending times during which the concern was active.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF-168)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../EpisodeObservation.dita">Episode Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.41</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>SUBJ" </tt><i>SUBJ</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ProblemEntry.dita">Problem Entry</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>SUBJ" </tt><i>SUBJ</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemEntry.html">IHE Problem Entry</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain one or more entryRelationship (CONF-151)</li>
<li>A problem act <b>MAY</b> reference a problem observation, alert observation (see section Alerts) or other clinical statement that is the subject of concern, by setting the value for "Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode" to be "SUBJ" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-152)</li>
<li>The target of a problem act with Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode="SUBJ" <b>SHOULD</b> be a problem observation (in the Problem section) or alert observation (in the Alert section), but <b>MAY</b> be some other clinical statement. (CONF-153)</li>
<li>In Problem Section, a Problem Act <b>SHOULD</b> contain one or more Problem Observations. (CONF-140)</li>
<li>In Alert Section, a ProblemAct <b>SHOULD</b> contain one or more Alert Observations. (CONF-256)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one Patient Awareness (CONF-179)</li>
<li>The effectiveTime 'low' element <b>SHALL</b> be present. The 'high' element <b>SHALL</b> be present for concerns in the completed or aborted state, and <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present otherwise.</li>
<li>This entry <b>SHALL</b> contain one or more problem or allergy entries that conform to the specification in section Problem Entry or Allergies and Intolerances.</li>
<li>This <b>SHALL</b> be represented using entryRelationship with typeCode = 'SUBJ'</li>
<li>Each concern <b>MAY</b> have 0 or more related references. This <b>MAY</b> be any valid CDA clinical statement, and <b>SHOULD</b> be an IHE entry template.</li>
<li>Related References <b>SHALL</b> be represented using entryRelationship with typeCode = 'REFR'.</li>
<li>The treating provider or providers <b>SHALL</b> be recorded in a &lt;performer&gt; element under the &lt;act&gt; that describes the condition of concern (C83-[DE-7.05-CDA-3])</li>
<li>The identifier of the treating provider <b>SHALL</b> be present in the &lt;id&gt; element beneath the &lt;assignedEntity&gt;. This identifier <b>SHALL</b> be the identifier of one of the providers listed in the healthcare providers module. (C83-[DE-7.05-CDA-2])</li>
<li>The time over which this provider treated the condition <b>MAY</b> be recorded in the &lt;time&gt; element beneath the &lt;performer&gt; element (C83-[DE-7.05-CDA-1])</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >hitsp::Condition</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::act[cda:templateId/@root = ]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>condition</entry><entry>condition</entry><entry>1..*</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Condition</entry><entry>C83-[CT-103-1]</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>Problem Entry ( conditionEntry )</entry><entry>conditionEntry</entry><entry>1..*</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ProblemEntry</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<act xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <id root="MDHT" extension="846842173"/>
  <code code="1063249712"/>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2012"/>
    <high value="2012"/>
  </effectiveTime>
  <entryRelationship>
    <observation/>
  </entryRelationship>
</act>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Condition</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.7</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
