<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Procedure - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc"><i>Abstract</i> [Procedure: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.17</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Procedure</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.17"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
<p>Known Subclasses: <xref href="../PlannedProcedure.dita">Planned Procedure</xref>, <xref href="../PastProcedure.dita">Past Procedure</xref></p>
</section>
<section id="description">
<p><lines><i>Defines a coded entry describing a procedure performed on a patient.</i></lines></p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId ( C83-[DE-17-CDA-1] ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.17"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProcedureEntry.html">IHE Procedure Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.19</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>targetSiteCode</b></tt>, where the @code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Body Site 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.3221.8.9</tt><b> STATIC</b> 2 (C83-[DE-17-CDA-3])
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The anatomical site where a procedure is performed</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF-433)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The code/originalText/reference/@value is present.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains the procedure provider in performer / assignedEntity.</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProcedureEntry.html">IHE Procedure Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.19</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="PROC" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>)
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b></tt> with data type x_DocumentProcedureMood
</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF-433)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>text</b></tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt>, where the @code <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> ProcedureStatusCode 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.20.15</tt><b> STATIC</b> 20061017 (CONF-430, CONF-431)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The &lt;statusCode> element shall be present when used to describe a procedure event. It shall have the value 'completed' for procedures that have been completed, and 'active' for procedures that are still in progress. Procedures that were stopped prior to completion shall use the value 'aborted', and procedures that were cancelled before being started shall use the value 'cancelled'.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>approachSiteCode</b></tt>
<ul><li><p><lines><i>This element may be present to indicate the procedure approach.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>targetSiteCode</b></tt>, where the @code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Body Site 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.3221.8.9</tt><b> STATIC</b> 2 (C83-[DE-17-CDA-3])
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The anatomical site where a procedure is performed</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>COMP" </tt><i>COMP</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../InternalReference.dita">Internal Reference</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.4.1</tt>)</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>This element may be present to point the encounter in which the procedure was performed, and shall contain an internal reference to the encounter.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>RSON" </tt><i>RSON</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../InternalReference.dita">Internal Reference</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.4.1</tt>)</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>A &lt;procedure> act may indicate one or more reasons for the procedure. These reasons identify the concern that was the reason for use via the Internal Reference entry content module. The extension and root of each observation present must match the identifier of a concern entry contained elsewhere within the CDA document.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Value for moodCode is 'INT' to indicate a planned procedure or 'EVN' to describe a procedure that has already occured.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The &lt;text&gt; element shall contain a reference to the narrative text describing the procedure.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When the procedure is in event mood (moodCode='EVN'), this entry conforms to the CCD template 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.29, and when in intent mood, this entry conforms to the CCD template 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.25</li>
<li>&lt;priorityCode&gt; <b>SHALL</b> be present in INT mood when effectiveTime is not provided, it <b>MAY</b> be present in other moods</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The entryRelationship/@inversionInd attribute is 'true' for the reference to encounter (typecode=COMP)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The code/originalText/reference/@value is present.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains the procedure provider in performer / assignedEntity.</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[Error: Missing Runtime Class]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Procedure</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[Procedure: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.17</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
