<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Problem Concern - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.7.3.1.1.26.2.4.16</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.7.3.1.1.26.2.4.16"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
<p><lines><i><b>Template Design Relationships</b>
This template is an adaptation of the IHE UV Realm Problem Concern template. Machine readable entries associated with this template use US Realm vocabulary constraints established for this purpose. 

This template is a design copy of the C-CDA R1.1 Problem Concern template (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3). This design for the Problem Concern directly references the HL7 C-CDA R1.1 Problem Observation template (transclusion). This design ensures that all structural and vocabulary constrains for expressing problem observations in the US Realm will be consistent.

<b>Template Purpose</b>
The problem concern template is a "tracker" which allows one or more problem observations to be grouped together and tracked over time as being associated with this particular concern.</i></lines></p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId (  ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.7.3.1.1.26.2.4.16"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.doc/classes/ProblemConcernAct.html">Consol Problem Concern Act</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>text</b></tt>
<ol>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains exactly one [1..1] reference such that it contains exactly one [1..1] @value such that it begins with a '#' and points to its corresponding narrative (using the approach defined in CDA Release 2, Section 4.3.5.1)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:9030)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The effectiveTime element records the starting and ending times during which the concern was active on the Problem List.</i></lines></p></li></ul><ol>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains exactly one [1..1] low and contains exactly one [1..1] high</li></ol></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.doc/classes/ProblemConcernAct.html">Consol Problem Concern Act</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.3</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:9024)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF:9025)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9026)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:9027)<tt><b>/@code</b>="CONC" </tt><i>Concern</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:9440)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>text</b></tt>
<ol>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains exactly one [1..1] reference such that it contains exactly one [1..1] @value such that it begins with a '#' and points to its corresponding narrative (using the approach defined in CDA Release 2, Section 4.3.5.1)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/ProblemActStatusCode.dita">ProblemActStatusCode</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.19</tt><b> STATIC</b> 2011-09-09 (CONF:9029)
<ul><li><p><lines><i><p>
The statusCode associated with any concern must be one of the following values:
</p>
<p>
<b>active</b>: A concern that is still being tracked.
<b>suspended</b>: A concern that is active, but which may be set aside. For example, this value might be used to suspend concern
about a patient problem after some period of remission, but before assumption that the concern has been resolved.
<b>aborted</b>: A concern that is no longer actively being tracked, but for reasons other than because the problem was resolved.
This value might be used to mark a concern as being aborted after a patient leaves care against medical advice.
<b>completed</b>:
The problem, allergy or medical state has been resolved and the concern no longer needs to be tracked except for
historical purposes.
</p></i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:9030)
<ol>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains exactly one [1..1] low and contains exactly one [1..1] high</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>The effectiveTime element records the starting and ending times during which the concern was active on the Problem List.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF:15980)
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>SUBJ" </tt><i>SUBJ</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ProblemObservation.dita">Problem Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.4</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>effectiveTime <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] low (CONF:9032)</li>
<li>effectiveTime <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] high (CONF:9033)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains exactly one [1..1] reference such that it contains exactly one [1..1] @value such that it begins with a '#' and points to its corresponding narrative (using the approach defined in CDA Release 2, Section 4.3.5.1)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains exactly one [1..1] low and contains exactly one [1..1] high</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >hpoc::ProblemConcern</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::act[cda:templateId/@root = ]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>effectiveTime</entry><entry>effectiveTime</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>IVL_TS</entry><entry>CONF:9030</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>text</entry><entry>text</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ED</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>act</entry><entry>act</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ProblemConcern</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<act xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3">
  <id root="MDHT" extension="791456358"/>
  <code code="1687466780"/>
  <text>Text Value</text>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2015"/>
    <high value="2015"/>
  </effectiveTime>
</act>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Problem Concern</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.7.3.1.1.26.2.4.16</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
