<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Approach</title>
	<body>
		<p>We first converted the NEMSIS specification into an analysis model 
		in the Emergency Medical Services Domain Analysis Model (EMS DAM), 
		initially balloted through HL7 in May of 2010 and finalized for the release in May 2011. 
		The static part of the analysis model was then constrained to the HL7 Reference Information Model (RIM) 
		in a Domain Information Model (DIM), balloted in January, 2011, and reballoted 
		in September, 2011. Both DAM and DIM are scheduled for publication in 2013, but they 
		can be found on the HL7 Wiki.</p>
		<p>This guide is the first implementable specification developed based on the EMS DIM.</p>
		<p>An initial iteration, balloted in May 2011, supports what is commonly termed “level one” 
		CDA compliance, i.e., a document with structured header information containing an 
		unstructured document of some form (whether pdf, image, or other recognized format). In  
		addition, this iteration supported “level two” compliance, in which human-readable text 
		information is provided for sections identified in XML. A sender of a document, however, 
		must choose whether to send the “level one” encapsulated document or the “level two” set 
		of XML sections: a document containing both is not acceptable.</p>
		<p>The September, 2011 iteration modeled the sections to “level three,” in which the 
		sections also include detailed, structured information representing the section text. 
		This structured information follows standard patterns in such a way that receiving 
		applications will be able to process specific semantically identified elements for storage 
		in medical records, application of business rules, or other computable services. This 
		iteration also includes changes to the level two template assignments, so the
		May 2011 iteration is no longer correct.</p>
		<p>Harmonization with Emergency Department specifications and <i>Data Elements for Emergency
		Department Systems</i>(DEEDS) involved use of extant LOINC codes for shared elements.</p>
		<p><b></b></p>
		
			<topic id="nullandnegativevalues">
		<title>Null and Negative Values</title>
		<body>
			<p>We use RIM attributes for observations that may require explicit negation or null values. If I have
			checked for signs of drug use, I can assert that a particular sign was found (with a proper value), that
			whether there were signs is unknown (with a null) or that there were no signs (with negation).</p>

			<p>However, in collections of acts other than observations, epistemological attributes may have uncertain
			semantics. If a procedure is negated, it may not be clear whether the clinician is asserting that the
			procedure was not performed during the encounter or that it has never been performed on the patient.
			Similarly, you may document a history of specific disorders, but including a single, general but negated
			disorder implies assumptions about the scope of the negated disorder that are not explicitly modeled.</p>

			<p>As a result, we manage negation and uncertainty for procedures with explicit observations. Using an
			observation allows the clinician to assert a history of zero disorders, or a lack of knowledge about
			disorders, without tying that assertion to a notional disorder that may imply unanticipated facts or
			questions. Questions supporting observations about procedures can differentiate between encounter
			and patient history, letting assertions about the truth or existence of the knowledge obtain in the
			appropriate scope.</p>
		
			<p>As a result, the medical history sections include, in addition to problems, procedures, medications, and
			allergies, observations regarding the existence of problems, procedures, medications, and allergies.</p>
			
			<p>In the interest of conformance with other guides, we also represent these null and negative acts with
			null and negated acts, in line with Consolidation Project recommendations. These notional classes are 
			annotated to ensure it's clear that they restate the explicit observations, and are not distinct facts.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
		<topic id="nullvaluemapping">
		<title>Null Value Mapping</title>
		<body>
			<p>NEMSIS contains null values not listed in HL7. “Not applicable” maps directly to “Not applicable,” but
			“Not recorded” and “Not reported” must be represented as the general concept “No information.”
			These values may also be copied into Observation.text.</p>
			
			<p>NEMSIS also contains “negative action values,” most of which are addressed with negation and special
			cases in this document. Some of the negative action values, however, are actually null values, and are
			recorded as “NI,” no information. A mapping of negative action values is provided in Appendix B.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	
		<topic id="units">
		<title>Units</title>
		<body>
			<p>Physical quantities use the HL7 PQ data type, in which units are expressed in the Unified Code for Units
			of Measure (UCUM; 2.16.840.1.113883.6.8), available at http://www.regenstrief.org. Interface values
			that are not actual physical units are handled differently: see appendix C for mappings.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	
	</body>
</topic>
