<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Cardinality</title>
	<body>
		<p>CDA provides several patterns for supporting cardinality. If a report is allowed to have
			many values for an element, that can be represented in CDA by the cardinality of the
			Observation.value, the Component.Observation, the Organizer.Component, the
			Section.Organizer, or the StructuredBody.section. We have chosen to support cardinality
			at the lowest level appropriate. I.e., unconstrained multiplicity will be supported at
			the Observation.value level. If the value is specific, e.g., to a body site, then we
			also support multiple Observations in the component. In this case the Component may have
			multiple Observations for different sites, each Observation having potentially multiple
			values. If there are groups of different Observations taken at different times, this
			would be supported with multiple Components.</p>
		<p>Components and Observations should not be instantiated without content. I.e., a Component
			will always contain at least one Observation or other clinical statement, and an
			Observation will always contain a value (unless there is a reason for an explanatory
			null flavor value).</p>
		<p><b>Examples</b></p>
		<p>A simple multiple valued element in an organizer or section (e.g., Skin Assessment)</p>
		<ul id="ul_zn3_xmq_5rb">
			<li>[Organizer] MAY contain zero or one [0..1] component such that it</li>
			<li>SHALL contain exactly one [1..1] observation such that it</li>
			<li>SHALL contain at least one [1..*] value</li>
		</ul>
		<p>A site-specific multiple Observation (e.g., Chest Assessment)</p>
		<ul id="ul_hmq_xmq_5rb">
			<li>[Organizer] MAY contain zero or one [0..1] component such that it</li>
			<li>SHALL contain at least one [1..*] observation such that it</li>
			<li>SHALL contain at least one [1..*] value</li>
		</ul>
		<p>A time-specific group (e.g., Vitals)</p>
		<ul id="ul_z5w_xmq_5rb">
			<li>[Organizer] MAY contain one or more [0..*] component such that it</li>
			<li>SHALL contain (1..1 or 1..*, as appopriate) observation such that it</li>
			<li>SHALL contain at least one [1..*] value</li>
		</ul>
	</body>
</topic>
	
		
