<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">

			<topic id="nullandnegativevalues" xml:lang="en-us" >
		<title>Null and Negative Values</title>
		<body>
			<p>We use RIM attributes for observations that may require explicit negation or null values. A
			provider who has checked for signs of drug use can assert that a particular sign was
			found (with a proper value), that whether there were signs is unknown (with a null) or
			that there were no signs (with negation).</p>

			<p>However, in collections of acts other than observations, epistemological attributes may have
			uncertain semantics. If a procedure is negated, it may not be clear whether the provider
			is asserting that the procedure was not performed during the encounter or that it has
			never been performed on the patient. Similarly, one may document a history of specific
			disorders, but including a single, general but negated disorder implies assumptions
			about the scope of the negated disorder that are not explicitly modeled.</p>

			<p>As a result, we manage negation and uncertainty for procedures with explicit Boolean observations. Using an
			observation allows the clinician to assert a history of zero disorders, or a lack of knowledge about
			disorders, without tying that assertion to a notional disorder that may imply unanticipated facts or
			questions. Questions supporting observations about procedures can differentiate between encounter
			and patient history, letting assertions about the truth or existence of the knowledge obtain in the
			appropriate scope.</p>
		
			<p>As a result, the medical history sections include, in addition to problems, procedures, medications, and
			allergies, observations regarding the existence of problems, procedures, medications, and allergies.</p>
			
			<p>In the interest of conformance with other guides, we also represent these null and negative
			acts with null and negated acts, in line with Consolidation Project recommendations.
			These notional classes are annotated to ensure that it is clear that they restate the
			explicit observations, and are not distinct facts.</p>
		</body>
	
	
</topic>
