<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Organization of This Guide</title>
	<body>
		<p>
			The requirements as laid out in the body of this document are subject
			to change per the policy on implementation guides (see section 13.02"
			Draft Standard for Trial Use Documents" within the HL7 Governance and
			Operations Manual,
			<xref format="pdf"
				href="http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/membership/HL7_Governance_and_Operations_Manual.pdf">http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/membership/HL7_Governance_and_Operations_Manual.pdf
			</xref>
			).
		</p>
	</body>
	<topic id="templates">
		<title>Templates</title>
		<body>
			<p>Templates are organized by document (see Document Templates), by
				section (see Section Templates), and by clinical statements (see
				Clinical Statement Templates). Within a section, templates are
				arranged hierarchically, where a more specific template is nested
				under the more generic template that it conforms to. </p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="vocabulary">
		<title>Vocabulary and Value Sets</title>
		<body>
			<p>Vocabularies specified in this guide are derived from standard
				vocabularies where possible; most questions, however, are fairly
				specific to the EMS domain. These questions have been encoded in
				clinical LOINC, and the answer sets have been encoded there as
				well, and they are included in this document. These values can 
				also be obtained from LOINC.org. We anticipate publishing these 
				value sets in a standard provisioning system, but are on hold 
				pending the current work being done to align LOINC and SNOMED CT. </p>
				
			<p>For properties bound to large value systems (e.g., 
				ICD-10 PCS), NEMSIS provides suggested subsets at NEMSIS.org, 
				under "V3 resources." These are not to be used to validate values 
				(all values in the system are valid), but as suggested aids to
				providing a manageable user interface. All RxNorm drugs are valid,
				for instance, but you might wish to provide a selection of drugs
				commonly found on EMS vehicles for easy selection.</p>
			
		</body>
	</topic>
</topic>
