<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Allergy Intolerance Concern - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.3</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.3"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This entry is a specialization of the Concern Entry, wherein the subject of the concern is focused on an allergy or intolerance.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../ConcernEntry.dita">IHE Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1</tt>)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Act</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ProblemAct.dita">CCD Problem Act</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../ConcernEntry.dita">IHE Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "ACT" (CONF-146)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-147)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@nullFlavor</tt> = "NA" <i>NA (not applicable)</i> (CONF-149)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-148)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt><ul><li>The effectiveTime element records the starting and ending times during which the concern was active.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from <xref href="../../terminology/ConcernEntryStatus.dita">ConcernEntryStatus</xref> Value Set</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/EpisodeObservation.dita">CCD Episode Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.41</tt>) (CONF-168)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ProblemObservation.dita">CCD Problem Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.28</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more entryRelationship (CONF-151)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A problem act MAY reference a problem observation, alert observation (see section Alerts) or other clinical statement that is the subject of concern, by setting the value for "Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode" to be "SUBJ" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-152)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The target of a problem act with Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode="SUBJ" SHOULD be a problem observation (in the Problem section) or alert observation (in the Alert section), but MAY be some other clinical statement. (CONF-153)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Problem Section, a Problem Act SHOULD contain one or more Problem Observations. (CONF-140)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Alert Section, a ProblemAct SHOULD contain one or more Alert Observations. (CONF-256)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one Patient Awareness (CONF-179)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The effectiveTime 'low' element shall be present. The 'high' element shall be present for concerns in the completed or aborted state, and shall not be present otherwise.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Each concern is about one or more related problems or allergies. This entry shall contain one or more problem or allergy entries that conform to the specification in section Problem Entry or Allergies and Intolerances. This is how a series of related observations can be grouped as a single concern. This SHALL be represented using entryRelationship with typeCode = 'SUBJ'.</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: Each concern may have 0 or more related references. These may be used to represent related statements such related visits. This may be any valid CDA clinical statement, and SHOULD be an IHE entry template. This SHALL be represented using entryRelationship with typeCode = 'REFR'.</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Problem Act"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Concern Entry"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.3" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Allergy Intolerance Concern"/>
              <id root="46864c59-a787-4b03-8147-11695e5f4f4d"/>
              <code nullFlavor="NA"/>
              <statusCode/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
