<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Payer Entry - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.18</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.18"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/PolicyActivity.dita">CCD Policy Activity</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.26</tt>)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Act</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/PolicyActivity.dita">CCD Policy Activity</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.26</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "ACT" (CONF-49)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-50)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ActCoverageType Value Set (2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19832) (CONF-54, CONF-55)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-51)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus) (CONF-52, CONF-53)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>performer</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/PayerEntity.dita">CCD Payer Entity</xref> (CONF-56)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>participant</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/CoveredParty.dita">CCD Covered Party</xref> (CONF-58)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt>participant</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/PolicySubscriber.dita">CCD Policy Subscriber</xref> (CONF-63)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A policy activity contains exactly one performer [@typeCode='PRF'], representing the payer. (CONF-56)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A policy activity contains exactly one participant [@typeCode='COV'], representing the covered party. (CONF-58)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The value for participant / participantRole / code in a policy activity's covered party MAY be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19809 PolicyOrProgramCoverageRoleType DYNAMIC. (CONF-61)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A covered party in a policy activity MAY contain exactly one participant / time, to represent the time period over which the patient is covered. (CONF-62)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A policy activity MAY contain exactly one participant [@typeCode='HLD'], representing the subscriber. (CONF-63)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A subscriber in a policy activity MAY contain exactly one participant / time, to represent the time period for which the subscriber is enrolled. (CONF-65)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The value for entryRelationship / @typeCode in a policy activity SHALL be 'REFR' 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-66)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The target of a policy activity with entryRelationship / @typeCode='REFR' SHALL be an Authorization Activity or an Act, with Act [@classCode = 'ACT'] and Act [@moodCode = 'DEF'], representing a description of the coverage plan. (CONF-67)</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.26" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Policy Activity"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.18" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Payer Entry"/>
              <id root="83b1820c-7155-4d1d-bf9c-292319255078"/>
              <code/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <performer>
                <assignedEntity>
                  <templateId assigningAuthorityName="CCD Payer Entity"/>
                  <id root="f9db7d70-fdba-4647-a044-b44195f66bc4"/>
                </assignedEntity>
              </performer>
              <participant>
                <participantRole>
                  <templateId assigningAuthorityName="CCD Covered Party"/>
                  <id root="cfbea3e8-4c93-4280-bd57-80d308858054"/>
                  <code/>
                </participantRole>
              </participant>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
