<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Procedure Activity Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.13</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.13"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../ProcedureActivity.dita">Procedure Activity</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.11</tt>)</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>
</li>
<li>contains one or more Observation / methodCode if the method isn't inherent in Observation / code or if there is a need to further specialize the method in Observation / code. Observation / methodCode <b>SHALL NOT</b> conflict with the method inherent in Observation / code. (CONF-435)</li>
<li>contains one or more Observation / targetSiteCode to indicate the anatomical site or system that is the focus of the procedure, if the site isn't inherent in Observation / code or if there is a need to further specialize the site in Observation / code. Observation / targetSiteCode <b>SHALL NOT</b> conflict with the site inherent in Observation / code (CONF-436)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../ProcedureActivity.dita">Procedure Activity</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.11</tt>)</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>encounterLocation</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../EncounterLocation.dita">Encounter Location</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.45</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>patientInstruction</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../PatientMedicalInstructions.dita">Patient Medical Instructions</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.3</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>ageObservation</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../AgeObservation.dita">Age Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.31</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>medicationActivity</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../MedicationNormalDose.dita">Medication Normal Dose</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>The value for act/code in a procedure activity <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and <b>MAY</b> be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12), ICD9 Procedures (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.104), ICD10 Procedure Coding System (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.4). (CONF-434)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: contain one or more Act / performer, to represent those practioners who performed the procedure. (CONF-438)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A procedure activity contains one or more entryRelationship / @typeCode="RSON", the target of which represents the indication or reason for the procedure. (CONF-439)</li>
<li>entryRelationship / @typeCode="RSON" in a procedure activity <b>SHALL</b> have a target of problem act (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27), problem observation (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.28), or some other clinical statement. (CONF-440)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: have one or more associated consents, represented in the CCD Header as ClinicalDocument / authorization / consent (CONF-442)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contains one or more sources of information (CONF-447)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: have one or more Act / participant [@typeCode="DEV"], the target of which is a product instance template (templateID: 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.52) (CONF-448)</li>
<li>participant / participantRole / id <b>SHOULD</b> be set to equal a Supply / participant / participantRole / id to indicate that the Procedure and the Supply are referring to the same product instance. (CONF-452)</li>
<li>contains one or more Observation / methodCode if the method isn't inherent in Observation / code or if there is a need to further specialize the method in Observation / code. Observation / methodCode <b>SHALL NOT</b> conflict with the method inherent in Observation / code. (CONF-435)</li>
<li>contains one or more Observation / targetSiteCode to indicate the anatomical site or system that is the focus of the procedure, if the site isn't inherent in Observation / code or if there is a need to further specialize the site in Observation / code. Observation / targetSiteCode <b>SHALL NOT</b> conflict with the site inherent in Observation / code (CONF-436)</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<observation xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.4.11"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.4.13"/>
  <id root="ba6811c7-4532-4860-b6a9-0a20fba27169"/>
  <code/>
  <statusCode/>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2011"/>
    <high value="2011"/>
  </effectiveTime>
</observation>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
