<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>VALUE SETS</title>
	<body>
		<p>The following tables provide information on the vocabulary items provided within the Implementation Guide.  The content
		 includes both those items used for human clinical and for non-human studies. </p> 
		 
		 <p>The value set -
		Act Type - provides a reference to the act code values used to clarify the semantics of included content.  </p>
		
		<p>Value sets will be either centrally controlled or locally created by the study sponsor. Currently, all the centrally
		controlled value sets are managed within the NCI Enterprise Vocabulary Services.  We are treating the EVS as the code system
		for all of the relevant codes.  Therefore, for those value sets
		that have the NCI Thesaurus listed as the code system, and NCI EVS listed as the source, it is expected that NCI concept codes
		 will be provided in document instances. These values sets will be both maintained and distributed by NCI.  
		  NCI EVS will provide a file for the Subject Data 
 Report user community to be located at: 
  <xref href="http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/cancerlibrary/terminologyresources/fda."/></p>
  
  <p>The locally defined value sets draw are developed by study sponsors, and are drawn from code systems - typically with the same name
  as the value set - created and maintained by the study sponsor.  It is expected that protocol submissions using the Study Design Structured
  Document specification will provide a listing of the relevant value sets.</p>
	</body>
	
</topic>
