<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Occupation Observation</title>
<shortdesc conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/shortdesc"></shortdesc>
<prolog conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/prolog"></prolog>
<body>
<p>This clinical statement represents the occupation of the subject of the case report. The
values are coded values from the Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) system
used by federal statistical agencies to classify workers into occupational categories for
the purpose of collecting, calculating, or disseminating data. A text element is available
for embellishing the observation. The template allows for representation of the name
and address of the employer. As much detail should be entered as possible. This
information is used by public health departments in their investigation to determine the
occupation of the subject of the case report. An observation of occupation may be
negated (e.g., not a Healthcare Worker) if it is specifically known that the subject of the
case report did or does NOT hold an occupation of interest/risk. In addition, this
template allows for the representation of the related industry using codes from the
Industry (NAICS).</p>
<section conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/description">
</section>
<!-- TODO: insert UML class diagram here -->

<ol audience="standards" conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/conformance">
<li></li>
</ol>
<ol audience="developer" conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/aggregate">
<li></li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<section conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/tableconformance">
</section>
<p> </p>
<p> </p>
<p><b>Occupation Observation example</b></p>
<!-- TODO: insert custom instance example here -->
<!-- generated instance example follows -->
<codeblock conref="generated/_OccupationObservation.dita#classId/example">
</codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
