<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Approach</title>
	<body>
		<p>Working with an initial portion of the data provides the
			opportunity to work with the data from the perspective of the
			underlying model and electronic format and to explore many design
			issues thoroughly. Taking this as an initial step ensures that the
			data set developers and standards community can reach consensus prior
			to the larger commitment of time that would be required to bring the
			full data set into standard format.</p>
		<p>This project supports reusability and ease of data collection
			through a standard data representation harmonized with work developed
			through Health Information Technology Expert Panel (HITEP), balloted
			through Health Level Seven (HL7) and/or recognized by the Health
			Information Technology Standards Panel (HITSP).</p>
		<p>This implementation guide (IG) specifies a standard for electronic
			submission of NCRs in a Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release
			2 format.</p>

		<p>In the development of this specification, the Transition of Care team reviewed 
			the requirements set forth in the ToC Use Case, identified and reviewed 
			artifacts relevant to those requirements and performed an analysis to 
			determine the data elements, metadata and vocabularies needed to support 
			those requirements.  As a result of that analysis, it was determined that 
			the HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2.0 Consolidated CDA Templates 
			(US Realm) most closely reflected the ToC requirements.</p>
		<p>The ToC team members then layered the additional ToC constraints upon the HL7 
			Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2.0 Consolidated CDA Templates (US Realm).</p>
		<p>The major document template additions for ToC which have been created by the ONC S&amp;I 
			Framework are defined by document.  All of the remaining section and entry templates 
			are to be used from the existing  HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2.0 
			Consolidated CDA Templates (US Realm) and may be found in that document.</p>
		<p>All of the Conformance requirements and value set tables used by the ToC CDA Documents 
			are those specified by the Consolidated CDA Templates as published by the 
			Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2.0 Consolidated CDA Templates (US Realm), 
			with the exception of the document level CDA templates published within this document.</p>
		<p>Both the Implemenation Guide for ToC CDA Consolidation and the Implementation Guide for CDA 
			Release 2.0 Consolidated CDA Templates (US Realm) are currently released for Trial 
			Implementation.</p>
	</body>
</topic>