<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		<p>This document contains specifications for using HL7's Clinical Document Architecture for reporting
		death information to vital records.</p>

		<p>The content defined within this implementation guide is drawn from the US Standard
		Certificate of Death as revised November 2003. </p>

			
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>

		<p>Certain materials contained in this Interoperability Specification
			are reproduced from .... (<i>A list of contained materials needs to be added.</i>} 
			No part of the material may be
			copied or reproduced in any form outside of the Interoperability
			Specification documents, including an electronic retrieval system, or
			made available on the Internet without the prior written permission
			of Health Level Seven, Inc. Copies of standards included in this
			interoperability specification may be purchased from the Health Level
			Seven, Inc. Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
