<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Diagnostic Imaging Report - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
<p><lines><i>A Diagnostic Imaging Report (DIR) is a document that contains a consulting specialist's interpretation of image data.  It conveys the interpretation to the referring (ordering) physician and becomes part of the patient's medical record.  It is for use in Radiology, Endoscopy, Cardiology, and other imaging specialties.</i></lines></p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId ( CONF:8404, CONF:10042 ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../GeneralHeaderConstraints.dita">General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:14833), which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/DIRDocumentTypeCodes.dita">DIRDocumentTypeCodes</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.32</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:14834)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>Given that DIR documents may be transformed from established collections of imaging reports already stored with their own type codes, there is no static set of Document Type codes. The set of LOINC codes listed in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table may be extended by additions to LOINC and supplemented by local codes as translations.
The DIR document recommends use of a single document type code, 18748-4 "Diagnostic Imaging Report", with further specification provided by author or performer, setting, or specialty. Some of these codes in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table are pre-coordinated with either the imaging modality, body part examined, or specific imaging method such as the view.  Use of these codes is not recommended, as this duplicates information potentially present with the header. When pre-coordinated codes are used, any coded values describing the author or performer of the service act or the practice setting must be consistent with the LOINC document type. This table is drawn from LOINC Version 2.36, June 30, 2011, and consists of codes whose scale is DOC and that refer to reports for diagnostic imaging procedures.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5363)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain  [0..0] <tt><b>informant</b></tt> (CONF:8410)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Informant12</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt> (CONF:8411)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The physician requesting the imaging procedure (ClincalDocument/participant[@typeCode=REF]/associatedEntity), if present, SHOULD also be recorded as an informationRecipient, unless in the local setting another physician (such as the attending physician for an inpatient) is known to be the appropriate recipient of the report.</i></lines></p></li><li><p><lines><i>When no referring physician is present, as in the case of self-referred screening examinations allowed by law, the intendedRecipient MAY be absent. The intendedRecipient MAY also be the health chart of the patient, in which case the receivedOrganization SHALL be the scoping organization of that chart.</i></lines></p></li></ul><ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Information Recipient</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> (CONF:8414) <ol><li> This participant <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:8415) <ol><li> This associatedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:8415) <ol><li> This associatedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:9406)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>inFulfillmentOf</b></tt> <p><lines><i>An inFulfillmentOf element represents the Placer Order that is either a group of orders (modeled as PlacerGroup in the Placer Order RMIM of the Orders and Observations domain) or a single order item (modeled as ObservationRequest in the same RMIM).  This optionality reflects two major approaches to the grouping of procedures as implemented in the installed base of imaging information systems.  These approaches differ in their handling of grouped procedures and how they are mapped to identifiers in the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) image and structured reporting data.  The example of a CT examination covering chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be used in the discussion below.
In the IHE Scheduled Workflow model, the Chest CT, Abdomen CT, and Pelvis CT each represent a Requested Procedure, and all three procedures are grouped under a single Filler Order.  The Filler Order number maps directly to the DICOM Accession Number in the DICOM imaging and report data.
A widely deployed alternative approach maps the requested procedure identifiers directly to the DICOM Accession Number.  The Requested Procedure ID in such implementations may or may not be different from the Accession Number, but is of little identifying importance because there is only one Requested Procedure per Accession Number.  There is no identifier that formally connects the requested procedures ordered in this group.
In both cases, inFulfillmentOf/order/id is mapped to the DICOM Accession Number in the imaging data.</i></lines></p><ol><li></li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt> (CONF:8416) <ol><li> This documentationOf <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>serviceEvent</b></tt> (CONF:8431) <ol><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:8430)</li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:8419)<p><lines><i>The value of serviceEvent/code SHALL NOT conflict with the ClininicalDocument/code. When transforming from DICOM SR documents that do not contain a procedure code, an appropriate nullFlavor SHALL be used on serviceEvent/code.</i></lines></p></li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8418)</li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref> (CONF:8422)<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.1</tt>)</li></ol></li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>relatedDocument</b></tt> (CONF:8432) <p><lines><i>When a Diagnostic Imaging Report has been transformed from a DICOM SR document, relatedDocument/@typeCode SHALL be XFRM, and relatedDocument/parentDocument/id SHALL contain the SOP Instance UID of the original DICOM SR document.</i></lines></p><ol><li> This relatedDocument The relatedDocument/id/@root attribute <b>SHALL</b> be a syntactically correct OID, and <b>SHALL NOT</b> be a UUID. (CONF:10030)</li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>componentOf</b></tt> (CONF:8434) <ol><li> This componentOf <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>encompassingEncounter</b></tt> (CONF:8449) <ol><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:8437)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8435)<p><lines><i>In the case of transformed DICOM SR documents, an appropriate null flavor MAY be used if the id is unavailable.</i></lines></p></li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>encounterParticipant</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref> (CONF:8448)<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.2</tt>)</li></ol></li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>responsibleParty</b></tt> (CONF:8438) <ol><li> This responsibleParty <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:9407) <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] assignedPerson OR contain zero or one [0..1] representedOrganization (CONF:8439)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day (CONF:10133, CONF:10127)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the minute (CONF:10133, CONF:10128)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>MAY</b> be precise to the second (CONF:10133, CONF:10129)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). If more precise than day, <b>SHOULD</b> include time-zone offset (CONF:10133, CONF:10130)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> (CONF:9484)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../FindingsSection.dita">Findings Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> (CONF:15141)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../DICOMObjectCatalogSection.dita">DICOM Object Catalog Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>This code <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @code="18748-4" Diagnostic Imaging Report (CodeSystem: LOINC2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) (CONF:8409)</li>
<li>The DICOM Object Catalog section (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), if present, <b>SHALL</b> be the first section in the document Body</li>
<li>With the exception of the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all sections within the Diagnostic Imaging Report content <b>SHOULD</b> contain a title element (CONF:9409)</li>
<li>The section/code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC or DICOM for sections not listed in the DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9410)</li>
<li>All sections defined in the DIR Section Type Codes table <b>SHALL</b> be top-level sections (CONF:9411)</li>
<li>A section element <b>SHALL</b> have a code element which <b>SHALL</b> contain a LOINC code or DCM code for sections which have no LOINC equivalent. This only applies to sections described inthe DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9412)</li>
<li>Apart from the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all other instances of section <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one text element or one or more component elements (CONF:9413)</li>
<li>All text or component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain content. text elements <b>SHALL</b> contain PCDATA or child elements, and component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain child elements (CONF:9414)</li>
<li>The text elements (and their children) <b>MAY</b> contain Web Access to DICOM Persistent Object (WADO) references to DICOM objects by including a linkHtml element where @href is a valid WADO URL and the text content of linkHtml is the visible text of the hyperlink</li>
<li>If clinical statements are present, the section/text <b>SHALL</b> represent faithfully all such statements and <b>MAY</b> contain additional text</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../GeneralHeaderConstraints.dita">General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>realmCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="US" </tt> (CONF:16791)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>typeId</b></tt> (CONF:5361)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5363)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:14833), which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/DIRDocumentTypeCodes.dita">DIRDocumentTypeCodes</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.32</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:14834)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>Given that DIR documents may be transformed from established collections of imaging reports already stored with their own type codes, there is no static set of Document Type codes. The set of LOINC codes listed in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table may be extended by additions to LOINC and supplemented by local codes as translations.
The DIR document recommends use of a single document type code, 18748-4 "Diagnostic Imaging Report", with further specification provided by author or performer, setting, or specialty. Some of these codes in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table are pre-coordinated with either the imaging modality, body part examined, or specific imaging method such as the view.  Use of these codes is not recommended, as this duplicates information potentially present with the header. When pre-coordinated codes are used, any coded values describing the author or performer of the service act or the practice setting must be consistent with the LOINC document type. This table is drawn from LOINC Version 2.36, June 30, 2011, and consists of codes whose scale is DOC and that refer to reports for diagnostic imaging procedures.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>title</b></tt> (CONF:5254)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:5256)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>Signifies the document creation time, when the document first came into being. Where the CDA document is a transform from an original document in some other format, the ClinicalDocument.effectiveTime is the time the original document is created. The time when the transform occurred is not currently represented in CDA (CONF:9995)</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>confidentialityCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HL7BasicConfidentialityKind.dita">HL7 BasicConfidentialityKind</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.16926</tt><b> STATIC</b> (CONF:5259)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/Language.dita">Language</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.11526</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5372)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>setId</b></tt> (CONF:5261)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>versionNumber</b></tt> (CONF:5264)
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Component2.dita">Component2</xref>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../Component2.dita">Component2</xref></li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>recordTarget</b></tt> (CONF:5266) <p><lines><i>The recordTarget records the patient whose health information is described by the clinical document; it must contain at least one patientRole element.</i></lines></p><ol><li> Such recordTargets <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>patientRole</b></tt> (CONF:5268) <ol><li> This patientRole <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5271)</li><li> This patientRole <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5268)</li><li> This patientRole <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5280)</li><li> This patientRole <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>patient</b></tt> (CONF:5283) <ol><li> This patient <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>administrativeGenderCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/AdministrativeGenderHL7V3.dita">Administrative Gender (HL7 V3)</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.1</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:6394)</li><li> This patient <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>birthTime</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TS.dita">TS</xref>" (CONF:5298)</li><li> This patient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>ethnicGroupCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/EthnicityValueSet.dita">Ethnicity Value Set</xref> 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.837</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5323)</li><li> This patient <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>maritalStatusCode</b></tt> (CONF:5303), which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HL7MaritalStatus.dita">HL7 Marital Status</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.12212</tt><b> STATIC</b> 1</li><li> This patient <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmPatientName.dita">US Realm Patient Name</xref>" (CONF:5284, CONF:10411)</li><li> This patient <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>raceCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/RaceValueSet.dita">Race Value Set</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.14914</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5322)</li><li> This patient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>religiousAffiliationCode</b></tt> (CONF:5317), which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HL7ReligiousAffiliation.dita">HL7 Religious Affiliation</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19185</tt><b> STATIC</b> 1</li><li> This patient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>sDTCRaceCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/RaceValueSet.dita">Race Value Set</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.14914</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:7263)<p><lines><i>Note: The sdtc:raceCode is only used to record additional values when the patient has indicated multiple races or additional race detail beyond the five categories required for Meaningful Use Stage 2. The prefix sdtc: SHALL be bound to the namespace "urn:hl7-org:sdtc". The use of the namespace provides a necessary extension to CDA R2 for the use of the additional raceCode elements.</i></lines></p></li><li> This patient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>birthplace</b></tt> (CONF:5395) <ol><li> This birthplace <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>place</b></tt> (CONF:5396) <ol><li> This place <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5397)</li><li> This place If country is US, this addr <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] state, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet StateValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.1 DYNAMIC</li><li> This place This addr <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] postalCode, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet PostalCodeValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.2 DYNAMIC</li><li> This place This addr <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] country, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet CountryValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.63 DYNAMIC</li></ol> </li></ol> </li><li> This patient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>guardian</b></tt> (CONF:5325) <ol><li> Such guardians <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>"</li><li> Such guardians <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:5326)</li><li> Such guardians <b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>"</li><li> Such guardians <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>guardianPerson</b></tt> <ol><li> This guardianPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt></li><li> This guardianPerson The content of name <b>SHALL</b> be a conformant US Realm Person Name (PTN.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.1.1) (CONF:10414)</li></ol> </li><li> Such guardians The guardian code, if present, <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet PersonalRelationshipRoleType 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19563 DYNAMIC or ValueSet Responsible Party 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19830 DYNAMIC (CONF:5326)</li></ol> </li><li> This patient <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>languageCommunication</b></tt> (CONF:5406) <ol><li> Such languageCommunications <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/Language.dita">Language</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.11526</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5407)</li><li> Such languageCommunications <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>modeCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HL7LanguageAbilityMode.dita">HL7 LanguageAbilityMode</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.12249</tt><b> STATIC</b> 1 (CONF:5409)</li><li> Such languageCommunications <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>preferenceInd</b></tt> (CONF:5414)</li><li> Such languageCommunications <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>proficiencyLevelCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/LanguageAbilityProficiency.dita">LanguageAbilityProficiency</xref> 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.12199</tt><b> STATIC</b> (CONF:9965)</li></ol> </li><li> This patient If sdtc:raceCode is present, then the patient <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] raceCode (CONF:31347)</li></ol> </li><li> This patientRole <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>providerOrganization</b></tt> (CONF:5416) <ol><li> This providerOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5422)</li><li> This providerOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5417)</li><li> This providerOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5419)</li><li> This providerOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5420)</li><li> This providerOrganization The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] id where id/@root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9996) (CONF:9996)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>componentOf</b></tt> (CONF:9955) <ol><li> This componentOf <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>encompassingEncounter</b></tt> (CONF:9956) <ol><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:9958)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9959)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt> (CONF:5444) <ol><li> Such authors <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:5445)<p><lines><i>The content SHALL be a conformant US Realm Date and Time (DTM.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4) (CONF:16866).</i></lines></p></li><li> Such authors <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedAuthor</b></tt> (CONF:5448) <ol><li> This assignedAuthor <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5452)</li><li> This assignedAuthor <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:16787), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HealthcareProviderTaxonomyNUCCHIPAA.dita">Healthcare Provider Taxonomy (NUCC - HIPAA)</xref> 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.1066</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:16788)</li><li> This assignedAuthor <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5449)</li><li> This assignedAuthor <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5428)</li><li> This assignedAuthor Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedAuthoringDevice</b></tt> <ol><li> This assignedAuthoringDevice <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>manufacturerModelName</b></tt> (CONF:16784)</li><li> This assignedAuthoringDevice <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>softwareName</b></tt> (CONF:16785)</li></ol> </li><li> This assignedAuthor Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> <ol><li> This assignedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:16789)</li></ol> </li><li> This assignedAuthor <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one  [1..1] assignedPerson or assignedAuthoringDevice (CONF:16790)</li><li> This assignedAuthor If this assignedAuthor is an assignedPerson, the assignedAuthor <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero to one [0..1] id such that it <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:31135, CONF:31694)</li></ol> </li><li> Such authors This time <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] US Realm Date and Time (DTM.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4) (CONF:5446)</li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>dataEnterer</b></tt> (CONF:5441) <ol><li> This dataEnterer <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:5442) <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5460)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.101 NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy</tt>) (CONF:9944)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5443)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5466)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:5469) <ol><li> This assignedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt></li></ol> </li><li> This assignedEntity id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] @root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:16821)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt> (iv., CONF:5519) <ol><li> This custodian <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedCustodian</b></tt> (CONF:5520) <ol><li> This assignedCustodian <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>representedCustodianOrganization</b></tt> (CONF:5521) <ol><li> This representedCustodianOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5559)</li><li> This representedCustodianOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5522)</li><li> This representedCustodianOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5524)</li><li> This representedCustodianOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5525)</li><li> This representedCustodianOrganization The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] @root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9996)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt> (CONF:5565) <ol><li> Such informationRecipients <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>intendedRecipient</b></tt> (CONF:5566) <ol><li> This intendedRecipient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt> (CONF:5568) <ol><li> This informationRecipient <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5470)</li></ol> </li><li> This intendedRecipient <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>receivedOrganization</b></tt> (CONF:5577) <ol><li> This receivedOrganization <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5578)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt> (CONF:5579) <ol><li> This legalAuthenticator <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>signatureCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="S" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.89 Participationsignature</tt>) (CONF:5583, CONF:5584)</li><li> This legalAuthenticator <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:5580)</li><li> This legalAuthenticator Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5589)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:17000), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HealthcareProviderTaxonomyNUCCHIPAA.dita">Healthcare Provider Taxonomy (NUCC - HIPAA)</xref> 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.1066</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b></li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5586)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5595)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:5597) <ol><li> This assignedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5598)</li></ol> </li><li> This assignedEntity The id <b>MAY</b> include zero or one [0..1] root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9996) (CONF:16823)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authenticator</b></tt> (CONF:5607) <ol><li> Such authenticators <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>signatureCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="S" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.89 Participationsignature</tt>) (CONF:5610)</li><li> Such authenticators <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:5608)</li><li> Such authenticators <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:5612) <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:5616)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:16825), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/HealthcareProviderTaxonomyNUCCHIPAA.dita">Healthcare Provider Taxonomy (NUCC - HIPAA)</xref> 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.1066</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:16826)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5613)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../TEL.dita">TEL</xref>" (CONF:5622)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:5624) <ol><li> This assignedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5625)</li></ol> </li><li> This assignedEntity The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9996)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informant</b></tt> (CONF:8001) <ol><li> Such informants <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:8220)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.101 NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy</tt>) (CONF:9947)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9945)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:8221) <ol><li> This assignedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt></li></ol> </li><li> This assignedEntity The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] id where id/@root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier</li></ol> </li><li> Such informants <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>relatedEntity</b></tt> <ol><li> This relatedEntity <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> with @xsi:type="<xref href="../USRealmAddress.dita">US Realm Address</xref>" (CONF:8220)</li><li> This relatedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>relatedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:8221) <ol><li> This relatedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt></li></ol> </li></ol> </li><li> Such informants <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contain exactly one [1..1] assignedEntity OR exactly one [1..1] relatedEntity (CONF:8002)</li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> (CONF:10003) <ol><li> Such participants <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:10004)</li><li> Such participants Such participants, if present, <b>SHALL</b> have an associatedPerson or scopingOrganization element under participant/associatedEntity. (CONF:10006)</li><li> Such participants Unless otherwise specified by the document specific header constraints, when participant/@typeCode is IND, associatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet INDRoleclassCodes 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.33 STATIC 2011-09-30.</li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>inFulfillmentOf</b></tt> (CONF:9952) <ol><li> Such inFulfillmentOfs <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>order</b></tt> (CONF:9953) <ol><li> This order <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9954)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt> (CONF:14835) <ol><li> Such documentationOfs <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>serviceEvent</b></tt> (CONF:14836) <ol><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:14837)</li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt> (CONF:14839) <ol><li> Such performers <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>functionCode</b></tt> (CONF:16818), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.88 ParticipationFunction</tt>) (CONF:16819)</li><li> Such performers <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@typeCode</b></tt> (CONF:14840)</li><li> Such performers <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:14841) <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:14842), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.101 NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy</tt>) (CONF:14843)</li><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:14846)</li><li> This assignedEntity The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1]root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9996) (CONF:14847)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li><li> This serviceEvent effectiveTime <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] low (CONF:14838)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authorization</b></tt> (CONF:16792) <ol><li> Such authorizations <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>consent</b></tt> (CONF:16793) <ol><li> This consent <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:16795)<p><lines><i>The type of consent (e.g., a consent to perform the related serviceEvent) is conveyed in consent/code (CONF:16796).</i></lines></p></li><li> This consent <b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:16794)</li><li> This consent <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt> (CONF:16797)<tt><b>/@code</b>="completed" </tt><i>Completed</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:16798)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> (CONF:8414) <ol><li> This participant <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:8415) <ol><li> This associatedEntity <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedPerson</b></tt> (CONF:8415) <ol><li> This associatedPerson <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:9406)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>inFulfillmentOf</b></tt> <p><lines><i>An inFulfillmentOf element represents the Placer Order that is either a group of orders (modeled as PlacerGroup in the Placer Order RMIM of the Orders and Observations domain) or a single order item (modeled as ObservationRequest in the same RMIM).  This optionality reflects two major approaches to the grouping of procedures as implemented in the installed base of imaging information systems.  These approaches differ in their handling of grouped procedures and how they are mapped to identifiers in the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) image and structured reporting data.  The example of a CT examination covering chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be used in the discussion below.
In the IHE Scheduled Workflow model, the Chest CT, Abdomen CT, and Pelvis CT each represent a Requested Procedure, and all three procedures are grouped under a single Filler Order.  The Filler Order number maps directly to the DICOM Accession Number in the DICOM imaging and report data.
A widely deployed alternative approach maps the requested procedure identifiers directly to the DICOM Accession Number.  The Requested Procedure ID in such implementations may or may not be different from the Accession Number, but is of little identifying importance because there is only one Requested Procedure per Accession Number.  There is no identifier that formally connects the requested procedures ordered in this group.
In both cases, inFulfillmentOf/order/id is mapped to the DICOM Accession Number in the imaging data.</i></lines></p><ol><li></li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt> (CONF:8416) <ol><li> This documentationOf <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>serviceEvent</b></tt> (CONF:8431) <ol><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:8430)</li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:8419)<p><lines><i>The value of serviceEvent/code SHALL NOT conflict with the ClininicalDocument/code. When transforming from DICOM SR documents that do not contain a procedure code, an appropriate nullFlavor SHALL be used on serviceEvent/code.</i></lines></p></li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8418)</li><li> This serviceEvent <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref> (CONF:8422)<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.1</tt>)</li></ol></li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>relatedDocument</b></tt> (CONF:8432) <p><lines><i>When a Diagnostic Imaging Report has been transformed from a DICOM SR document, relatedDocument/@typeCode SHALL be XFRM, and relatedDocument/parentDocument/id SHALL contain the SOP Instance UID of the original DICOM SR document.</i></lines></p><ol><li> This relatedDocument The relatedDocument/id/@root attribute <b>SHALL</b> be a syntactically correct OID, and <b>SHALL NOT</b> be a UUID. (CONF:10030)</li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>componentOf</b></tt> (CONF:8434) <ol><li> This componentOf <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>encompassingEncounter</b></tt> (CONF:8449) <ol><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:8437)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8435)<p><lines><i>In the case of transformed DICOM SR documents, an appropriate null flavor MAY be used if the id is unavailable.</i></lines></p></li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>encounterParticipant</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref> (CONF:8448)<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.2</tt>)</li></ol></li><li> This encompassingEncounter <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>responsibleParty</b></tt> (CONF:8438) <ol><li> This responsibleParty <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> (CONF:9407) <ol><li> This assignedEntity <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] assignedPerson OR contain zero or one [0..1] representedOrganization (CONF:8439)</li></ol> </li></ol> </li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day (CONF:10133, CONF:10127)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the minute (CONF:10133, CONF:10128)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>MAY</b> be precise to the second (CONF:10133, CONF:10129)</li><li> This encompassingEncounter The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). If more precise than day, <b>SHOULD</b> include time-zone offset (CONF:10133, CONF:10130)</li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> (CONF:9484)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../FindingsSection.dita">Findings Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> (CONF:15141)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../DICOMObjectCatalogSection.dita">DICOM Object Catalog Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: [DEPRECATED] The US Realm Clinical Document Date and Time datatype flavor records date and time information. If no time zone offset 
is provided, you can make no assumption about time, unless you have made a local exchange agreement.
This data type uses the same rules as US Realm Date and Time (DTM.US.FIELDED),  but is used with the effectiveTime 
element.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The US Realm Clinical Document Date and Time datatype flavor records date and time information. If no time zone offset 
is provided, you can make no assumption about time, unless you have made a local exchange agreement.</li>
<li>typeId <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3" (CONF:5250)</li>
<li>typeId <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] @extension="POCD_HD000040" (CONF:5251)</li>
<li>id <b>SHALL</b> be a globally unique identifier for the document (CONF:9991)</li>
<li>code <b>SHALL</b> specify the particular kind of document (e.g. History and Physical, Discharge Summary, Progress Note). (CONF:9992)</li>
<li>If setId is present versionNumber <b>SHALL</b> be present (CONF:6380)</li>
<li>If versionNumber is present setId <b>SHALL</b> be present (CONF:6387)</li>
<li>This code <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @code="18748-4" Diagnostic Imaging Report (CodeSystem: LOINC2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) (CONF:8409)</li>
<li>The DICOM Object Catalog section (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), if present, <b>SHALL</b> be the first section in the document Body</li>
<li>With the exception of the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all sections within the Diagnostic Imaging Report content <b>SHOULD</b> contain a title element (CONF:9409)</li>
<li>The section/code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC or DICOM for sections not listed in the DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9410)</li>
<li>All sections defined in the DIR Section Type Codes table <b>SHALL</b> be top-level sections (CONF:9411)</li>
<li>A section element <b>SHALL</b> have a code element which <b>SHALL</b> contain a LOINC code or DCM code for sections which have no LOINC equivalent. This only applies to sections described inthe DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9412)</li>
<li>Apart from the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all other instances of section <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one text element or one or more component elements (CONF:9413)</li>
<li>All text or component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain content. text elements <b>SHALL</b> contain PCDATA or child elements, and component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain child elements (CONF:9414)</li>
<li>The text elements (and their children) <b>MAY</b> contain Web Access to DICOM Persistent Object (WADO) references to DICOM objects by including a linkHtml element where @href is a valid WADO URL and the text content of linkHtml is the visible text of the hyperlink</li>
<li>If clinical statements are present, the section/text <b>SHALL</b> represent faithfully all such statements and <b>MAY</b> contain additional text</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >consol::DiagnosticImagingReport</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::clinicaldocument[cda:templateId/@root = 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>code</entry><entry>code</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CE</entry><entry>CONF:14834</entry><entry> null</entry></row> 
<row><entry>id</entry><entry>id</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>II</entry><entry>CONF:5363</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>componentOf</entry><entry>componentOf</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ComponentOf</entry><entry>CONF:8434</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>dICOMObjectCatalogSection</entry><entry>dICOMObjectCatalogSection</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>SHOULD</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>DICOMObjectCatalogSection</entry><entry>CONF:15141</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>documentationOf</entry><entry>documentationOf</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>DocumentationOf</entry><entry>CONF:8416</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>findingsSection</entry><entry>findingsSection</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>FindingsSection</entry><entry>CONF:9484</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>informant</entry><entry>informant</entry><entry>0..0</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Informant12</entry><entry>CONF:8410</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>informationRecipient</entry><entry>informationRecipient</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>InformationRecipient</entry><entry>CONF:8411</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>inFulfillmentOf</entry><entry>inFulfillmentOf</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>InFulfillmentOf</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>participant1</entry><entry>participant1</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Participant</entry><entry>CONF:8414</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>relatedDocument</entry><entry>relatedDocument</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>RelatedDocument</entry><entry>CONF:8432</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <realmCode code="US"/>
  <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1"/>
  <id root="MDHT" extension="1043626978"/>
  <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
  <title>TEXT FOR TITLE</title>
  <effectiveTime/>
  <confidentialityCode codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25" codeSystemName="ConfidentialityCode"/>
  <setId root="MDHT" extension="5b8412ae-33e3-4efc-ba81-d249dfdda4a7"/>
  <versionNumber value="1"/>
  <recordTarget>
    <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
    <patientRole/>
  </recordTarget>
  <author>
    <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
    <time/>
    <assignedAuthor/>
  </author>
  <informant/>
  <custodian/>
  <informationRecipient/>
  <participant>
    <associatedEntity>
      <associatedPerson/>
    </associatedEntity>
  </participant>
  <inFulfillmentOf>
    <order/>
  </inFulfillmentOf>
  <documentationOf>
    <serviceEvent classCode="ACT">
      <id root="MDHT" extension="205819016"/>
      <code code="739349761"/>
      <performer/>
    </serviceEvent>
  </documentationOf>
  <relatedDocument>
    <parentDocument/>
  </relatedDocument>
  <componentOf>
    <encompassingEncounter>
      <id root="MDHT" extension="52419059"/>
      <effectiveTime>
        <low value="2014"/>
        <high value="2014"/>
      </effectiveTime>
      <responsibleParty/>
      <encounterParticipant/>
    </encompassingEncounter>
  </componentOf>
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.2"/>
          <id root="MDHT" extension="1193414586"/>
          <code code="2040100127"/>
          <title>TEXT FOR TITLE</title>
          <confidentialityCode code="183499768"/>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1"/>
          <id root="MDHT" extension="495649256"/>
          <code code="121181" codeSystem="1.2.840.10008.2.16.4" codeSystemName="DCM" displayName="Dicom Object Catalog"/>
          <title>TEXT FOR TITLE</title>
          <confidentialityCode code="16328311"/>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.6"/>
              <id root="MDHT" extension="487513392"/>
              <code code="113014" codeSystem="1.2.840.10008.2.16.4" codeSystemName="DCM"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="2014"/>
                <high value="2014"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <entryRelationship>
                <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.63"/>
                  <code code="113015" codeSystem="1.2.840.10008.2.16.4" codeSystemName="DCM"/>
                </act>
              </entryRelationship>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Diagnostic Imaging Report</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
