<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Vital Sign - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.14</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.14"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>A vital signs observation is a simple observation that uses a specific vocabulary, and inherits
constraints from CCD.</p>
<p>
These entries are used to record current and relevant historical vital signs for the patient. Vital Signs are a subset of <b><i>Results Section</i></b>, but are reported in this section to follow clinical conventions.
</p>

<p>
The differentiation between Vital Signs and Results varies by clinical context. Common examples of vital signs include temperature, height, weight, blood pressure, etc. However, some clinical contexts may alter these common vitals, for example in neonatology "height" may be replaced by "crown-to-rump" measurement.
</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../Result.dita">Result</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.15</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.62 Vital Sign Result</tt><b> STATIC</b> 1 (C154-[DE-14.03-1])</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>interpretationCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.5)<ul><li>The interpretation code may be present to provide an interpretation of the vital signs measure (e.g., High, Normal, Low, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>methodCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.6)<ul><li>The method code element may be present to indicate the method used to obtain the measure. Note that method used is distinct from, but possibly related to the target site.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>targetSiteCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.7)<ul><li>The target site of the measure may be identified in the targetSiteCode element (e.g., Left arm [blood pressure], oral [temperature], et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt>, where its data type is PQ (6.3.4.22.4)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Data Element Definitions for Results [Placeholder]<ul><li>Vital Signs are a subset of Results Section, but are reported in this section to follow clinical conventions.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../Result.dita">Result</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.15</tt>)</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b></tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF-408)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF-409)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.62 Vital Sign Result</tt><b> STATIC</b> 1 (C154-[DE-14.03-1])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt> (CONF-410)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt>, where its data type is PQ (6.3.4.22.4)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>interpretationCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.5)<ul><li>The interpretation code may be present to provide an interpretation of the vital signs measure (e.g., High, Normal, Low, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>methodCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.6)<ul><li>The method code element may be present to indicate the method used to obtain the measure. Note that method used is distinct from, but possibly related to the target site.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>targetSiteCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.7)<ul><li>The target site of the measure may be identified in the targetSiteCode element (e.g., Left arm [blood pressure], oral [temperature], et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li>The value for 'code' <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and <b>MAY</b> be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12). (CONF-413)</li>
<li>The methodCode <b>SHALL NOT</b> conflict with the method inherent in code (CONF-415)</li>
<li>Where value is a physical quantity, the unit of measure <b>SHALL</b> be expressed using a valid Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) expression. (CONF-417)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contain one or more referenceRange to show the normal range of values for the observation result (CONF-419)</li>
<li><b>SHALL NOT</b> contain referenceRange / observationRange / code, as this attribute is not used by the HL7 Clinical Statement or Lab Committee models. (CONF-420)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-421)</li>
<li>Result Type <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96) (C154-[DE-15.03-1])</li>
<li>Result Type for laboratory results <b>SHOULD</b> be coded as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.6.1 Laboratory Observations. (C154-[DE-15.03-2])</li>
<li>Result Value <b>SHALL</b> be present when the observation/@moodCode is EVN or GOL, and <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present when observation/@moodCode is INT or PRP. (C83-[DE-15.05-CDA-1])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Data Element Definitions for Results [Placeholder]<ul><li>Vital Signs are a subset of Results Section, but are reported in this section to follow clinical conventions.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<observation xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd" moodCode="EVN">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.15"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.14"/>
  <id root="2ae892ef-9afc-45d3-99e8-bc8379a072aa"/>
  <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
  <statusCode/>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2011"/>
    <high value="2011"/>
  </effectiveTime>
  <interpretationCode/>
  <methodCode/>
  <targetSiteCode/>
</observation>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
