<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This Implementation Guide defines required and optional sections. In CCD, all sections are optional. This document constrains CCD by adding some section requirements and providing guidance on which sections are recommended for use with personal healthcare monitoring reports and how they should be used. 
The following table summarizes required and recommended sections within this DSTU.

All other CCD sections are allowed, but will typically not be used for transmitting structured data. 
The ordering of sections is not constrained by this specification. However, from a reader's perspective, it is generally useful to put personal healthcare monitoring information such as vital signs first, and supporting information like medical equipment towards the end of the document.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../GeneralHeaderConstraints.dita">General Header Constraints</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../VitalSigns.dita">Vital Signs</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../Results.dita">Results</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9.14</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../MedicalEquipment.dita">Medical Equipment</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
</li>
<li>A Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report contains either VitalSigns or Results, but also <b>MAY</b> contain both.</li>
<li>Wherever clinical statement terminology conformance is left unspecified by CCD, SNOMED CT® or LOINC® (in the case of lab data) <b>SHOULD</b> be used, unless no SNOMED or LOINC term exists for a particular concept, in which case IEEE 11073-10101 MDC <b>SHOULD</b> be used (code system 2.16.840.1.113883.6.24).</li>
<li>If the data being reported came from a PHM-compliant device, and IEEE 11073-10101 is not used as the primary code, then a translation element <b>SHOULD</b> be present containing the equivalent IEEE 11073-10101 code. This constraint applies to the following elements: act/code, encounter/code, observation/code, procedure/code, substanceAdministration/code, supply/code, and observation/value if value/@xsi:type is CD or CE.</li>
<li>If the data in an observation was obtained directly from a PHM device, the observation <b>SHALL</b> include an entryRelationship element containing a Device Reference Act identifying the device providing the data for the observation. If the data in an observation was entered manually, the observation <b>SHALL NOT</b> include a Device Reference Act.</li>
<li>CONF-PHMR-67:	When an observation is intended to convey that an alert threshold has been exceeded, the observation <b>SHOULD</b> include an interpretationCode element with an appropriate code (such as "A" for abnormal) from 2.16.840.1.113883.5.83 ObservationInterpretation (DYNAMIC) as well as an originalText element describing the alert reported by the device.  When an alert results in missing data, null flavors <b>SHOULD</b> be used on observation/code or observation/value where appropriate.<ul><li>Devices sometimes report alerts. These are typically recorded using the interpretationCode element on an observation. Since many of the alerts are device specific and not defined in any code system, only in the device specs themselves, the human-readable equivalent of the alert is often the best information to communicate in the PHM report.</li></ul></li>
<li>Observation time <b>SHOULD</b> incorporate the local time zone of the device into any effectiveTime elements with accuracy greater than the day in the resulting clinical statements.<ul><li>Data may be collected from devices that, due to manufacturing cost issues, do not implement time-zone information. The measurement is therefore stamped by a so-called "wall clock" set by the user. It will be the responsibility of the hosting system to append time-zone information where necessary before generating the CDA document. s</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../GeneralHeaderConstraints.dita">General Header Constraints</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>typeId</b></tt>
<ul><li>The clinical document type ID identifies the constraints imposed by CDA R2 on the
content, essentially acting as a version identifier.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt>
<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/id element is an instance identifier data type (see HL7 Version 3
Abstract Data in Section 5 REFERENCES). The root attribute is a UUID or OID. The
root uniquely identifies the scope of the extension. The root and extension attributes
uniquely identify the document.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="53576-5" </tt><i>Personal Health Monitoring Report</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>)
<ul><li>Specifies the type of the clinical document.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>title</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the local name used for the document.
Note that the title does not need to be the same as the display name provided with the
document type code. For example, the display name provided by LOINC&#174; as an aid in
debugging may be "HISTORY AND PHYSICAL." The title can be localized, as appropriate.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the creation time of the document. All documents
authored by direct input to a computer system should record an effectiveTime that is
precise to the second. When authored in other ways, for example, by filling out a
paper form that is then transferred into an EHR system, the precision of
effectiveTime may be less than to the second.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>confidentialityCode</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the confidentiality assigned to the document. This specification provides no further guidance beyond CDA R2
on documents with respect to the vocabulary used for confidentialityCode, nor
treatment or implementation of confidentiality.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>recordTarget</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../RecordTarget.dita">Record Target</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Author.dita">Author</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Custodian.dita">Custodian</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Component2.dita">Component2</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Author
</li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>dataEnterer</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Data Enterer
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Custodian
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Information Recipient
</li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Legal Authenticator
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authenticator</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Authenticator
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../VitalSigns.dita">Vital Signs</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../Results.dita">Results</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9.14</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../MedicalEquipment.dita">Medical Equipment</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, such that
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patient, guardianPerson, assignedPerson, maintainingPerson, relatedPerson, intendedRecipient/informationRecipient, associatedPerson, and relatedSubject/subject elements have a name.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patientRole, assignedAuthor, assignedEntity[not(parent::dataEnterer)] and associatedEntity elements have an addr and telecom element.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: All guardian, dataEnterer/assignedEntity, relatedEntity, intendedRecipient, relatedSubject and participantRole elements have an addr and telecom element.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All guardianOrganization, providerOrganization, wholeOrganization, representedOrganization, representedCustodianOrganization, receivedOrganization, scopingOrganization and serviceProviderOrganization elements have name, addr and telecom elements.<ul><li>When name, address, or telecom information is unknown and where these elements are
required to be present, as with CDA conformance if the information is unknown, these
elements will be represented using an appropriate value for the nullFlavor attribute on
the element. Legal values according to this specification come from the HL7 NullFlavor
vocabulary.</li></ul></li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second.</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Telephone numbers match the regular expression pattern tel:\+?[-0-9().]+<ul><li>The telecom element is used to provide a contact telephone number for the various
participants that require it. The value attribute ofthis elements is a URL that specifies
the telephone number, as indicated by the TEL data type.</li><li>All telephone numbers are to be encoded using a restricted form of the tel: URL scheme. 
A telephone number used for voice calls begins with the URL scheme tel:. If the
number is a global phone number, it starts with a plus (+) sign. The remaining number
is made up of the dialing digits and an optional extension and may also contain visual
separators.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one dialing digit is present in the phone number after visual separators are removed.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the telephone number is unknown it is represented using the appropriate flavor of null.<ul><li>There is no way to distinguish between an unknown phone number and an unknown
e-mail or other telecommunications address. Therefore, the following convention will be
used: Any telecom element that uses a flavor of null (has a nullFlavor attribute) is
assumed to be a telephone number, which is the only required telecommunications
address element within this DSTU.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The extension attribute of the typeId element is POCD_HD000040.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.typeId.extension = 'POCD_HD000040'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The id/@root attribute is a syntactically correct UUID or OID.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: UUIDs are represented in the form XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, where each X is a character from the set [A-Fa-f0-9].</li>
<li>OIDs are represented in dotted decimal notation, where each decimal number is either 0, or starts with a nonzero digit. More formally, an OID <b>SHALL</b> be in the form ([0-2])(.([1-9][0-9]*|0))+.<ul><li><p>Organizations that wish to use OIDs should properly register their OID root and ensure
uniqueness of the OID roots used in identifiers. A large number of mechanisms exist
for obtaining OID roots for free or for a reasonable fee. HL7 maintains an OID registry
page from which organizations may request an OID root under the HL7 OID root. This
page can be accessed at: http://www.hl7.org/oid.</p>
<p>Another useful resource lists the many ways to obtain a registered OID Root for free or
a small fee anywhere in the world and is located at:
http://www.dclunie.com/medical-image-faq/html/part8.html#UIDRegistration. </p>
<p>The manner in which the OID root is obtained is not constrained by this DSTU.</p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: OIDs are no more than 64 characters in length.<ul><li>OIDs are limited by this specification to no more than 64 characters in length for
compatibility with other standards and Implementation Guides.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: languageCode has the form nn, or nn-CC.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The nn portion of languageCode is a legal ISO-639-1 language code in lowercase.</li>
<li>The CC portion languageCode, if present, <b>SHALL</b> be an ISO-3166 country code in uppercase.</li>
<li>Both setId and versionNumber <b>SHALL</b> be present or both <b>SHALL</b> be absent.<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/setId element uses the instance identifier (II) data type. The root
attribute is a UUID or OID that uniquely identifies the scope of the identifier, and the
extension attribute is a value that is unique within the scope of the root for the set of
versions of the document. See Document Identification, Revisions, and Addenda in
Section 4.2.3.1 of the CDA Specification for some examples showing the use of the setId
element.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and self.versionNumber.oclIsUndefined())
   xor (not self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and not self.versionNumber.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The @extension and/or @root of setId and id <b>SHALL</b> be different when both are present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (not self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and not self.id.oclIsUndefined())
   implies (self.setId.root &lt;&gt; self.id.root or self.setId.extension &lt;&gt; self.id.extension)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A copyTime element <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present.<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/copyTime element has been deprecated in CDA R2.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.copyTime.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;size() &gt; 0 and self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A patient/birthTime element <b>SHALL</b> be present. The patient/birthTime
element <b>SHALL</b> be precise at least to the year, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise at least to the
day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone. If unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of
null.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   implies (not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.value.oclIsUndefined()
      or not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.nullFlavor.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A patient/administrativeGenderCode element <b>SHALL</b> be present. If
unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of null. Values for
administrativeGenderCode <b>SHOULD</b> be drawn from the HL7 AdministrativeGender
vocabulary.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   implies (not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.code.oclIsUndefined()
      or not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.nullFlavor.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode, raceCode and
ethnicGroupCode <b>MAY</b> be present. If maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode,
raceCode and ethnicGroupCode elements are present, they <b>SHOULD</b> be encoded using
the appropriate HL7 vocabularies.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The guardian element is present when the patient is a minor child.</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The providerOrganization element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.providerOrganization.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The author/time element is present.<ul><li>The author/time element represents the start time of the author's
participation in the creation of the clinical document.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | not author.time.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/id element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | author.assignedAuthor.id-&gt;size() &gt; 0)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: An assignedAuthor element contains at least one assignedPerson
or assignedAuthoringDevice elements.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | not author.assignedAuthor.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined() 
   or not author.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When dataEnterer is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.dataEnterer.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The dataEnterer/time element <b>MAY</b> be present. If present, it represents the starting time of entry of the data.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.dataEnterer.time.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The informant element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.informant-&gt;size() &gt; 0</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>When informant is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson or
relatedEntity/relatedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.informant-&gt;forAll(i : cda::Informant12 | not i.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()
   or not i.relatedEntity.relatedPerson.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider with an assigned role, the
informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the assignedEntity element<ul><li>Assigned health care providers may be a source of information when a document is
created. (e.g., a nurse's aide who provides information about a recent significant health
care event that occurred within an acute care facility.) In these cases, the
assignedEntity element is used.</li></ul></li>
<li>Allowable values for informant/relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be CON,
PRS, CAREGIVER, AGNT or PROV from the RoleClass vocabulary.<ul><li><p>When the informant is a personal relation, that informant is represented in the
relatedEntity element. The code element of the relatedEntity describes the relationship
between the informant and the patient.</p>
<p>The relationship between the informant and the patient needs to be described to help
the receiver of the clinical document understand the information in the document.</p></li></ul></li>
<li>When relatedEntity/@classCode is PRS, values in relatedEntity/code
<b>SHALL</b> come from the HL7 PersonalRelationshipRoleType vocabulary or from
SNOMED, any subtype of "Person in the family" (303071001).</li>
<li>When an informant is an unrelated person not otherwise specified, the
value relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to CON to indicate that this person is a
contact.<ul><li>Individuals with no prior personal relationship to the patient (e.g., a witness to a
significant health care event) may provide information about the patient.</li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider without an assigned role,
the informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of
relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to PROV.<ul><li>A health care provider who does not have an assigned role at the institution may
provide information. To record an informant that does not have an assigned role that
can be represented within the context of the document, the information will be
represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of relatedEntity/@classCode
will be set to PROV.</li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider, the value of relatedEntity/code <b>SHOULD</b> be present and indicate the type of healthcare provider.</li>
<li>The ClinicalDocument/informationRecipient element <b>MAY</b> be present.
When informationRecipient is used, at least one
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/informationRecipient or
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/receivedOrganization <b>SHALL</b> be present.</li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in legalAuthenticator.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.legalAuthenticator.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in an authenticator element.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.authenticator-&gt;forAll(auth : cda::Authenticator | auth.assignedEntity-&gt;forAll(entity : cda::AssignedEntity |
   not entity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second.</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone.</li>
<li>if a template has no templateId (OID) then the templateId <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present</li>
<li>A Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report contains either VitalSigns or Results, but also <b>MAY</b> contain both.</li>
<li>Wherever clinical statement terminology conformance is left unspecified by CCD, SNOMED CT® or LOINC® (in the case of lab data) <b>SHOULD</b> be used, unless no SNOMED or LOINC term exists for a particular concept, in which case IEEE 11073-10101 MDC <b>SHOULD</b> be used (code system 2.16.840.1.113883.6.24).</li>
<li>If the data being reported came from a PHM-compliant device, and IEEE 11073-10101 is not used as the primary code, then a translation element <b>SHOULD</b> be present containing the equivalent IEEE 11073-10101 code. This constraint applies to the following elements: act/code, encounter/code, observation/code, procedure/code, substanceAdministration/code, supply/code, and observation/value if value/@xsi:type is CD or CE.</li>
<li>If the data in an observation was obtained directly from a PHM device, the observation <b>SHALL</b> include an entryRelationship element containing a Device Reference Act identifying the device providing the data for the observation. If the data in an observation was entered manually, the observation <b>SHALL NOT</b> include a Device Reference Act.</li>
<li>CONF-PHMR-67:	When an observation is intended to convey that an alert threshold has been exceeded, the observation <b>SHOULD</b> include an interpretationCode element with an appropriate code (such as "A" for abnormal) from 2.16.840.1.113883.5.83 ObservationInterpretation (DYNAMIC) as well as an originalText element describing the alert reported by the device.  When an alert results in missing data, null flavors <b>SHOULD</b> be used on observation/code or observation/value where appropriate.<ul><li>Devices sometimes report alerts. These are typically recorded using the interpretationCode element on an observation. Since many of the alerts are device specific and not defined in any code system, only in the device specs themselves, the human-readable equivalent of the alert is often the best information to communicate in the PHM report.</li></ul></li>
<li>Observation time <b>SHOULD</b> incorporate the local time zone of the device into any effectiveTime elements with accuracy greater than the day in the resulting clinical statements.<ul><li>Data may be collected from devices that, due to manufacturing cost issues, do not implement time-zone information. The measurement is therefore stamped by a so-called "wall clock" set by the user. It will be the responsibility of the hosting system to append time-zone information where necessary before generating the CDA document. s</li></ul></li>
</ol>

<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Personal Healthcare Monitoring Report</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.9</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
