<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Approach</title>
	<body>
		<p>We first transformed the NEMSIS specification into the Emergency Medical Services Domain 
		Analysis Model (EMS DAM), 
		initially balloted through HL7 in May of 2010 and finalized for the release in May 2011. 
		The static part of the analysis model was then constrained to the HL7 Reference Information Model (RIM) 
		in a Domain Information Model (DIM), balloted in January, 2011, and reballoted 
		in September, 2011. After a DSTU period, this guide was balloted to Normative status in the
		autumn of 2013.</p>
		<p>This guide is the first implementable specification developed based on the EMS DIM.</p>
		<p>An initial iteration, balloted in May 2011, supports what is commonly termed “level one” 
		CDA compliance, i.e., a document with structured header information containing an 
		unstructured document of some form (whether pdf, image, or other recognized format). In  
		addition, this iteration supported “level two” compliance, in which human-readable text 
		information is provided for sections identified in XML. A sender of a document, however, 
		must choose whether to send the “level one” encapsulated document or the “level two” set 
		of XML sections: a document containing both is not acceptable.</p>
		<p>The September, 2011 iteration modeled the sections to “level three,” in which the 
		sections also include detailed, structured information representing the section text. 
		This structured information follows standard patterns in such a way that receiving 
		applications will be able to process specific semantically identified elements for storage 
		in medical records, application of business rules, or other computable services. This 
		iteration also includes changes to the level two template assignments, so the
		May 2011 informative version is no longer valid.</p>
		<p>Harmonization has been approached semantically rather than syntactically. There are clear
			parallels, but few exact matches, with the CDA Consolidation project--an effort by the
			Office of the National Coordinator's Standards &amp; Interoperability initiative in
			collaboration with HL7 to bring together several similar extant CDA specifications. We
			expect that LOINC codes will offer the ability to identify consistent information
			elements, even when the structures they inhabit (templates) may be subject to differing
			requirements. These requirements include elements required in the Consolidated guide but 
			not always available in an EMS setting, elements needed in an EMS setting but not 
			represented in the Consolidated templates, and elements where a code is specific to a
			clinical setting and an EMS-specific code is needed. Similarly, harmonization with the 
			Emergency Department specification<i>Data Elements for Emergency Department Systems</i>
			(DEEDS) depends on the use of extant or related LOINC codes for shared elements. </p>
		<p>This release is generated from UML models developed in the Open Health Tools (OHT)
			Model-Driven Health Tools (MDHT) project. The data specifications have been formalized
			into computational models expressed in UML. These models are used by automated tooling
			to generate this publication, plus validation tools and Java libraries for
			implementers.</p>

		</body>
</topic>
