<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Extending CDA</title>
	<body>
	<p>HL7’s Clinical Document Architecture has been chosen as the mechanism for
	   conveying study subject information because of its wide use within the healthcare
	   domain, and because its power and generality allow it to express a wide range of 
	   relevant information and concepts.  However, not all of the requirements of Subject 
	   Data Reporting – as modeled for SDTM and SEND, are supported within the CDA.  Fortunately, 
	   CDA does provide a mechanism for creating extensions that allows the inclusion of needed 
	   features while still assuring interoperability for those who do not support those features. </p>
		
		<p>CDA R2 contains the following regarding extending the standard:</p>

		<p>“Locally-defined markup may be used when local semantics have no corresponding representation
		 in the CDA specification. CDA seeks to standardize the highest level of shared meaning while providing
		  a clean and standard mechanism for tagging meaning that is not shared. In order to support local
		   extensibility requirements, it is permitted to include additional XML elements and attributes that are
		    not included in the CDA schema. These extensions should not change the meaning of any of the standard
		     data items, and receivers must be able to safely ignore these elements. Document recipients must be able
		      to faithfully render the CDA document while ignoring extensions."</p>
			 
			 <p>"Extensions may be included in the instance in a namespace other than the HL7v3 namespace, but must not
			  be included within an element of type ED (e.g., -text- within -procedure--) since the contents of an ED
			   datatype within the conformant document may be in a different namespace. Since all conformant content 
			   (outside of elements of type ED) is in the HL7 namespace, the sender can put any extension content into
			    a foreign namespace (any namespace other than the HL7 namespace). Receiving systems must not report an
			     error if such extensions are present."</p>
		
			 <p>"When these extension mechanisms mark up content of general relevance, HL7 encourages users to get their
			  requirements formalized in a subsequent version of the standard so as to maximize the use of shared semantics." </p>
			  
			  <p>This implementation guide follows these principles by defining a custom XML Namespace – 
			  (xmlns:ctm=<xref format="html" href="http://clinicalTrialMaterial">clinical trial material</xref> to designate
			   the required extensions to the standard.</p>
			  
				<p>The following features, which are required for subject data implementation, are not supported within CDA:
			  </p>
			<ul>
			<li><b>Material Form Code</b>: The implementation guides need to capture dose form for study drugs and other substances.</li>
			<li><b>Ingredient Role, Ingredient Substance</b>: The implementation guides need to record the drug strength – the amount
			 of active ingredient within an administered amount as well as to capture information about treatment vehicles.  </li>
			<li><b>Generalized Material Kind</b>: The implementation guides need to record the drug class that a medicinal substance belongs in.</li>
			</ul>
            <p>Each of these required features is supported by extending the CDA schema.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
