<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Use of Templates</title>
	<body>
		<p>HL7 offers the following definition of a template: "A template is an
		 expression of a set of constraints on the RIM or a RIM derived model that
		  is used to apply additional constraints to a portion of an instance of data
		   which is expressed in terms of some other Static Model. Templates are used
		    to further define and refine these existing models to specify a narrower
		     and more focused scope".</p>
		    
		     <p>Within this Implementation Guide, we have created
		     a template data structure corresponding to each of the domains defined within
		     the SEND IG.  The goal is to make it easier for those familiar with SEND to
		     recognize data within an instance, and to ease the migration for those who
		     have implemented SEND IG based reporting.  In addition, structures that are
		     repeated have been defined as templates, both to ease eventual implementation,
		     and to simplify creation of this document.</p> 
		<p>When valued in an instance, the template identifier (<tt>templateId</tt>)
			signals the imposition of a set of template-defined constraints. The
			value of this attribute provides a unique identifier for the
			templates in question.</p>
	</body>
	<topic id="originator">
		<title>Originator Responsibilities</title>
		<body>
			<p>An originator can apply a <tt>templateId</tt> to assert conformance with a
				particular template.</p>
			<p>In the most general forms of CDA exchange, an originator need not
				apply a <tt>templateId</tt> for every template that an object in an instance
				document conforms to. This implementation guide asserts when
				<tt>templateId</tt>s are required for conformance.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="recipient">
		<title>Recipient Responsibilities</title>
		<body>
			<p>A recipient may reject an instance that does not contain a
				particular <tt>templateId</tt> (e.g., a recipient looking to receive only CCD
				documents can reject an instance without the appropriate
				<tt>templateId</tt>).</p>
			<p>A recipient may process objects in an instance document that do
				not contain a <tt>templateId</tt> (e.g., a recipient can process entries that
				contain Observation acts within a Problems section, even if the
				entries do not have <tt>templateId</tt>s).</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
</topic>
