<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Organization of This Guide</title>
	<body>
	<p>The document is generated from UML models developed in
			the Open Health Tools (OHT) Model-Driven Health Tools (MDHT) project.
			The data specifications have been formalized into computational
			models expressed in UML. These models are used by automated tooling
			to generate this publication, plus validation tools and Java libraries
			for implementers.</p>
			<p>The implementation guide organization is intended to highlight the several templates defined to 
			convey the functional content of a compliant document.</p>
			
	</body>
	<topic id="templates">
		<title>Templates</title>
		<body>
			<p>Templates are organized by document (see Document Templates), by
				section (see Section Templates), and by clinical statements (see
				Clinical Statement Templates). Each template defines the particular data 
				structure that is intended for use.  In CDA terms, these templates are closed.  They define
				the content that is expected to be provided, and express the position that a conformant
				document instance will not add additional content.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="vocabulary">
		<title>Vocabulary and Value Sets</title>
		<body>
			<p>The Implementation Guide provides definition for the vocabulary items that are 
			needed as content for those elements using coded data types.  The use of coded types, and 
			the precise expression of the valid content of code sets is essential to enable efficient 
			processing of subject data report content, and to allow the proper use of the contained data. Within this
			guide, the vocabulary section documents the various act code values used to define structural elements - to
			identify particular acts or observations.  It also defines the several value sets needed to constrain the 
			semantic content of coded items.  In principle, all the vocabulary needed to support subject data reporting
			would draw on a common set of concepts.  This has been done wherever possible, and the NCI Enterprise Vocabulary
			Services are used as the repository and source for the commonly agreed upon vocabulary items. In order to streamline
			the processing of vocabulary items, EVS itself has been treated as the code system for all its contained concepts - therefore
			the NCI concept id is used as the value in coded fields, and the HL7 assigned OID for the EVS is used as the code system OID.
			We have provided a reference to the EVS website within this guide, as opposed to including the lists of codes for each value set.
			This has been done to a) address the problem of updating the vocabulary section when new codes are added, and b) to reduce the
			size of the document.</p>
			
			<p>However, not all of the coded items used are supported within EVS. These include such items as the set of categories
			used to organize records within the various SEND and SDTM  domains.  Items which cannot currently be centrally managed have
			been defined as code systems in their own right, and are listed as sponsor defined.  It is expected that study sponsors will
			provide reference material to allow these items to be evaluated.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
</topic>
