<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Supporting CDISC data structures</title>
	<body>
		
		<p>Building a CDA Implementation Guide that supports the content of an SDTM or SEND based
		submission involves the definition of translations or mappings between the data structures defined
		within the CDISC implementation guides and those supported by HL7's Clinical Document Architecture.  This 
		section focuses on areas where the relationships between the two sets of specifications are potentially unclear,
		and discusses the conventions used in the mapping </p>
		<ul>
		<li><b>Subject Identifiers</b>: Each SEND and SDTM domain contains information to identify the subject of the 
		data being provided.  In CDA, a document has a single subject identified in the header.  The identifier appears
		as a feature of the "patient" which is associated with the clinical document as its record target.
		<p></p>
		For example:
		<codeblock id="subjectIDExample">
<![CDATA[
<recordTarget typeCode="RCT">
		<patientRole classCode="PAT">
			<id root="1.11.1121" extension="COMPOUNDA_STUDY1_11951"/>
			<!-- We need an OID that says Unique Subject ID -->
			<id root="1.11.1122" extension="11951"/>
			<!-- We need an OID that says  Subject ID -->
			<patient classCode="PSN" determinerCode="INSTANCE">
			</patient>
		</patientRole>
	</recordTarget>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note, the root attribute within the id element is used to distinguish between the unique subject id
and a study specific identifier. <p></p>
		</li>
		<li><b>Pool Identifier</b>: A pool, which only appears in SEND, is a group of subjects
		about which data is collected.  In other words, a CDA instance will have either a single subject
		or a subject pool as its subject - as the record target.  The pool id is treated in the same 
		way as the subject id in the example above.<p></p></li>
		<li><b>Collection Date/Time</b>: A finding can refer to a physical process or condition that 
		takes place over a period of time, and the start and stop dates for a fact related to a subject, e.g., a 
		disease or pattern of behavior, may be recorded as the effectiveTime for that act.  It may also be 
		relevant to capture the date/time on which this information was collected.  The Implementation Guide handles
		this situation by defining a template - "Data Collection" - for capturing this information.  This template
		also supports capturing the study day of data collection by including a "Study Day" observation which may
		be associated with the data collection one.
				<p></p>
		For example:
		<codeblock id="CollectionTimeExample">
<![CDATA[
<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
	<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
		<code code="CXXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- Indicate data collection -->
		<effectiveTime value="1990508"/>
		<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
			<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
				<code code="ESDtbd" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
				<!-- Indicate study day  -->
				<value xsi:type="INT" value="-16"/>
			</observation>
		</entryRelationship>
	</observation>
</entryRelationship>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note, it may be relevant to capture both the start and stop dates of data collection and, consequently, the
start and stop study days.  In this case, an interval of effectiveTimes or of integer values may be used.<p></p>
</li>
		<li><b>Test or Observation Names</b>:Virtually all SEND and SDTM domains contain information about something, be it
		a measurement, a test, a particular type of observation.  The implementation guides make it possible to capture the
		name of an item, as well as short name, reported name, modified name and standardized name.  Each of these is treated
		differently within CDA as discussed above in the section on Observation code. <p></p>
		</li>
		<li><b>Category and Sub-Category</b>: Many domains include the notion of category and sub-category.  In each case, there
		is a domain specific value set(vocabulary)that contains the list of valid categories or sub-categories. For the most part
		these are sponsor defined.  A single template has been defined for category, and an analogous one for sub-category.  In this
		template, unlike many of the others, the value of observation code is not fixed, it indicates the domain that a category value 
		is drawn from.  In other words, the value set used to constrain observation value is based on the content of observation code.  
		<p></p>
		For example:
		<codeblock id="CatogoryExample">
<![CDATA[
<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
	<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
		<code code="CXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- Indicate this is a lab category observation.  -->
		<value xsi:type="CD" code="xxx" displayName="BLOOD CHEMISTRY" codeSystem="1.22.116"/>
		<!-- We need an OID to designate a local code system for lab result categories.  -->
	</observation>
</entryRelationship>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
		</li>
		<li><b>Baseline, Derived, Excluded Values</b>:  A data item may be characterized as a baseline value, as a value that
		has been derived from other data points, or (in SEND) as a value to be excluded from calculations.  Since these 
		characterizations are used to aid in interpreting the associated data item, they are treated as interpretation codes
		within CDA.<p></p>
		For example:
		<codeblock id="interpretationCodeExample">
<![CDATA[
	<interpretationCode code="CXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
	<!-- The IG captures the Baseline designation as an interpretation code value. This requires the needed concept within NCI.  -->]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note that, since interpretation code repeats, an item may be characterized in multiple ways.  In the case of laboratory results, 
intpretation code values such as "normal," "high" may be passed as well. <p></p>
		</li>
		<li><b>Study Day of Start, Study Day of End</b>:In many cases, the timing of an event, intervention or finding is oriented
		both with reference to a calendar date and time but also to "study day".  This captures the number of days since a reference
		date that has been set as the point of origin for the subject's participation in the study.  Since events and interventions
		can take place over a number of days, it is possible to record both the beginning and ending study days.  	
		<p></p>For example:
		<codeblock id="StudyDayExample">
<![CDATA[
<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
	<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
		<code code="SDPtbd" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- Study Day Period -->
		<value xsi:type="IVL_INT">
			<low value="1"/>
			<high value="2"/>
		</value>
	</observation>
</entryRelationship>]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
		</li>
		<li><b>Association to Reference Time Points</b>: One of the more complex notions within the study data tabulation model
		is the notion of relating an activity to a defined reference time point.  It is possible to indicate when some act needs 
		to be performed (or when it has been performed) as a timing offset from a reference point.  This reference point may be 
		assigned a date/time in its own right, or it may be a particular event, e.g., first dose of the study drug, in the course
		of the study or the life of the study subject. The Implementation Guides support this notion through creation of the "Timing 
		Reference" template.  This template contains two linked observations. The first specified the timing offset, and the second 
		identifies the reference point - the "anchoring time point" - that the offset is measured against.
		<p></p>For example:
		<codeblock id="timingReferenceExample">
<![CDATA[
<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
	<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
		<code code="TRtbd" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- Indicate "timing reference" -->
		<effectiveTime>
			<width value="15" unit="min"/>
			</effectiveTime>
		<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
			<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
				<code code="ATPtbd" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
				<!-- Indicate "anchor time point" -->
				<text mediaType="text/plain>First Dose</text>
			</observation>
		</entryRelationship>
	</observation>
</entryRelationship>
	]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
		</li>
		<li><b>Results: Character and Numeric</b>: The explanatory text for the CDISC implementation
		guides makes it clear that finding results typically are recorded as physical quantities using standard
		and local units of measure. It is also possible for a result to be provided as text, or as a coded value.
		In the case of coded values, the codes may be drawn from a locally defined code system or from a standard
		code system.  Note, for our purposes, a standard code system is one that is defined within, or accessible
		through, EVS.
		<p></p>A typical example, capturing body weight shows physical quantities, with the numeric value also provided as a text field:
		<codeblock id="resultExample">
<![CDATA[
<value xsi:type="PQR" value="143" code="g" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
<!-- CDISC Units of measure  -->
<value xsi:type="PQR" value="143" code="g" codeSystem="1.22.155"/>
<!-- We need an OID to designate a local code system for  original units of measure.  -->
<value xsi:type="ED" mediaType="text/plain">143</value>
	]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p></li>
		<li><b>Specimen Information</b>: Within CDA, a specimen is captured in relationship to the act of 
		specimen collection.  Therefore, the effectiveTime of the collection act records the date/time of specimen
		collection, while specimen type is recorded as the .code value for the specimen entity itself. An identifier
		for the specimen may be recorded as well.   When it is relevant to capture information about the specimen
		usability or condition, these are recorded as observations associated with specimen collection. 
		<p></p>For example:
		<codeblock id="specimenExample">
<![CDATA[
<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
	<procedure classCode="PROC" moodCode="EVN">
		<code code="CXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- The act of specimen collection.  -->
		<effectiveTime>
			<low value="20071104"/>
		</effectiveTime>
		<specimen typeCode="SPC">
			<specimenRole classCode="SPEC">
				<specimenPlayingEntity classCode="MAT" determinerCode="INSTANCE">
					<code code="CXXXXX" displayName="WHOLE_BLOOD" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
					<!-- Assuming that specimen type values are captured within EVS.  -->
				</specimenPlayingEntity>
			</specimenRole>
		</specimen>
		<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
			<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
				<code code="C83450" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
					<!-- Planned Study Day -->
					<value xsi:type="INT" value="1"/>
			</observation>
		</entryRelationship>
	</procedure>
</entryRelationship>
	]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
Note, within this example, the planned study day for specimen collection has been included.<p></p> </li>	
		<li><b>Specimen Anatomic Region</b>: It may be relevant (SEND only) to collect information on the 
		anatomic region for the specimen.  It is possible to record an anatomic region for the specimen, as well as 
		to indicate the laterality and directionality of the specimen collection within that body site.  Each of these items
		are captured as target site codes within HL7 - they would be used to characterize the specimen collection act.  In addition,
		if the report records whether the specimen represents a portion of the totality of the anatomic region, this will be recorded
		as an observation associated with the specimen collection.
		<p></p>For example:
		<codeblock id="anatomicLocationExample">
<![CDATA[
<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
	<procedure classCode="PROC" moodCode="EVN">
		<code code="CXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- The act of specimen collection.  -->
		<targetSiteCode code="CXXXXX" displayName="MEDULLA" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- The anatomic site.  -->
		<targetSiteCode code="CXXXXX" displayName="LEFT" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- Laterality  -->
		<targetSiteCode code="CXXXXX" displayName="PROXIMAL" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
		<!-- Directionality  -->
		<!- .... omitting the specimen type information ->
		<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
			<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
				<code code="POTtbd" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
					<!-- Portion or Totality -->
					<value xsi:type="CD" code="CXXXXX" displayName="SEGMENT" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
			</observation>
		</entryRelationship>
	</procedure>
</entryRelationship>
	]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
</li>	
		<li><b>Visit Name and Number</b>: In many cases (SDTM only) information is recorded within the context of a visit.  In the SDTM Implementation
		Guide, visit name and number may be recorded for an item.   This feature is supported within the CDA implementation Guide by providing a Visit
		template, and including information for these domains, i.e., ECG Test, Human Clinical Laboratory, Physical Examination, Questionnaire
     Finding, Vital Sign, Pharmacokinetic Concentration, Pharmacokinetic Parameter, Drug Accountability, as entries within the Visit section.
     		<p></p>Here is an example showing the visit section, and two vital sign findings:
		<codeblock id="visitExample">
<![CDATA[
<section classCode="DOCSECT">
					<code code="CXXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
					<!-- Indicate subject visit section,  Note, the Lab and Vital Signs content will be found nested within. -->
					<title>Subject Visits Section</title>
					<text>Autogenerated Text Goes here</text>
					<!-- Begin Visit #1 -->
					<entry typeCode="COMP">
						<encounter classCode="ENC" moodCode="EVN">
							<id root="1.11.1125" extension="1"/>
							<code code="SCREENING" codeSystem="1.22.113"/>
							<!-- We need an OID to designate a local code system for different visit names or types.  -->
							<effectiveTime>
								<low value="19980508"/>
								<high value="19990523"/>
							</effectiveTime>
							<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
								<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
									<code code="C66734" displayName="Domain Abbreviation" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
									<value xsi:type="CD" code="C49617" displayName="subject visits" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
								</observation>
							</entryRelationship>
							<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
								<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
									<code code="C83450" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
									<!-- Planned Study Day -->
									<value xsi:type="INT" value="-7"/>
								</observation>
							</entryRelationship>
							<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
								<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
									<code code="SDPtdb" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
									<!-- Study Day Period -->
									<value xsi:type="IVL_INT">
										<low value="-381"/>
										<high value="-1"/>
									</value>
								</observation>
							</entryRelationship>
							<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
								<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
									<id root="1.11.1126" extension="1"/>
									<code code="DIAPB" displayName="Diastolic Blood Pressure" codeSystem="1.22.117">
										<!-- We need an OID to designate a local code system for vital sign observations.  -->
									</code>
									<effectiveTime value="199905081510"/>
									<value xsi:type="PQR" value="64.4625" code="MMHG"   codeSystem="1.22.115"/>
									<!-- We need an OID to designate a local code system for  original units of measure.  --> 
									<value xsi:type="PQR" value="64.4625" code="C49670" displayName="MMHG"  codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
									<!-- CDISC Units of measure  -->
									<value xsi:type="ED" mediaType="text/plain">64.4625</value>
									<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
										<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
											<code code="C66734" displayName="Domain Abbreviation" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
											<value xsi:type="CD" code="C49622" displayName="vital signs" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
										</observation>
									</entryRelationship>
									<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
										<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
											<code code="CXXXXX" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
											<!-- Indicate this is a vital sign category observation.  -->
											<value xsi:type="CD" code="xxx" displayName="BLOOD CHEMISTRY" codeSystem="1.22.117"/>
											<!-- We need an OID to designate a local code system for Vital Sign categories.  -->
										</observation>
									</entryRelationship>
									<entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
										<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
											<code code="C71148" displayName="Position" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
											<value xsi:type="CD" code="62122" displayName="SITTING" codeSystem="1.22.118"/>
										</observation>
									</entryRelationship>
									<entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
										<observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
											<code code="C83450" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
											<!-- Planned Study Day -->
											<value xsi:type="INT" value="-16"/>
										</observation>
									</entryRelationship>
								</observation>
							</entryRelationship>
	]]>
</codeblock>
<p></p>
     </li>
		</ul>
</body>
</topic>
