<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		<p>This implementation guide was developed with the support and sponsorship of the National EMS 
Information System (NEMSIS), directed by Clay Mann. Additional clinical guidance was provided by Dr. 
Greg Mears. NEMSIS is supported by the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the Centers 
for Disease Control, and the Health Resources and Services Administration, as well as dozens of other 
government agencies, universities, and professional organizations. 
</p>
 
<p> 
Shakir Consulting was instrumental in the creation of the domain analysis model and constrained model 
that inform this specification. 
</p>

<p> 
The HL7 Patient Care, Emergency Care, and Clinical Interoperability Council working groups sponsored 
the project, but we also leaned heavily on the work done by HL7’s Structured Documents committee, 
as well as exemplary guides produced by other teams, most notably the Healthcare Associated Infections 
team. Special thanks go to Russ Hamm, Jerry Sable, Rob Hausam, Keith Boone, Dan Leonard, and Dan 
Vreeman.
</p>

<p> 
The work could not have been completed without the indefatigable assistance of Jaci Phillips and the 
support of the Regenstrief institute. 
</p>

		<p>This document contains information from the following sources:</p>

		<p>&#169;2010 ANSI. This material may be copied without permission from ANSI only if and to the
			extent that the text is not altered in any fashion and ANSI’s copyright is clearly noted.</p>

		<p>SNOMED CT&#174; is the registered trademark of the International Health Terminology Standard
			Development Organization (IHTSDO). Implementers will need to acquire a (free) license to use 
			SNOMED CT by agreeing to the UMLS Metathesaurus license, available from the National Library 
			of Medicine (nlm.nih.gov).</p>
			
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>
		
		<p>The length-based body weight classification (67670-0) is based on values defined by General Electric’s
		Broselow-Luten system. Implementers will require a license to use this field.</p>

		<p>Certain materials contained in this Interoperability Specification
			are reproduced from Health Level Seven (HL7) HL7 Implementation
			Guide: CDA Release 2 – Continuity of Care Document (CCD), HL7
			Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: History and Physical (H&amp;P)
			Notes, HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Consult Notes, or
			HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Operative Notes with
			permission of Health Level Seven, Inc. No part of the material may be
			copied or reproduced in any form outside of the Interoperability
			Specification documents, including an electronic retrieval system, or
			made available on the Internet without the prior written permission
			of Health Level Seven, Inc. Copies of standards included in this
			Interoperability Specification may be purchased from the Health Level
			Seven, Inc. Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>
		<p><b>Contributors</b></p>
 <table>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Co-Editor / Co-Chair</entry>
            <entry>Anita Walden
					Duke Translational Medicine Institute
					Duke University
					anita.walden@duke.edu</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Co-Editor</entry>
            <entry>Jay Lyle
					Ockham Information Services LLC
					jlyle@ockhamis.com</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Co-Editor</entry>
            <entry>Sarah Ryan
					Ockham Information Services LLC
					sryan@ockhamis.comm</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>EMS Subject Matter Expert</entry>
            <entry>Clay Mann
					National EMS Information System
					University of Utah School of Medicine
					clay.mann@utah.edu</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>EMS Subject Matter Expert</entry>
            <entry>Greg Mears, M.D.
					Department of Emergency Medicine
					University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
					gmears@emspic.org</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
	</body>
</topic>
