<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Vital Sign Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>A vital signs observation is a simple observation that uses a specific vocabulary, and inherits
constraints from CCD.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultObservation.html">CCD Result Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>) (6.3.4.22.2)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../SimpleObservation.dita">Simple Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13</tt>) (6.3.4.22.2)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>) (6.3.4.22.3)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>interpretationCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.5)
<ul><li>The interpretation code may be present to provide an interpretation of the vital signs measure (e.g., High, Normal, Low, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>methodCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.6)
<ul><li>The method code element may be present to indicate the method used to obtain the measure. Note that method used is distinct from, but possibly related to the target site.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>targetSiteCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.7)
<ul><li>The target site of the measure may be identified in the targetSiteCode element (e.g., Left arm [blood pressure], oral [temperature], et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt>, where its data type is PQ (6.3.4.22.4)
</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../SimpleObservation.dita">Simple Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultObservation.html">CCD Result Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>)</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="OBS" </tt><i>Observation</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF-408)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF-409)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt> (CONF-410)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>) (6.3.4.22.3)
</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF-411)
<ul><li>Represents the biologically relevant time (e.g. time the specimen was obtained from the patient).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt>, where its data type is PQ (6.3.4.22.4)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>interpretationCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.5)
<ul><li>The interpretation code may be present to provide an interpretation of the vital signs measure (e.g., High, Normal, Low, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>methodCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.6)
<ul><li>The method code element may be present to indicate the method used to obtain the measure. Note that method used is distinct from, but possibly related to the target site.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>targetSiteCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.22.7)
<ul><li>The target site of the measure may be identified in the targetSiteCode element (e.g., Left arm [blood pressure], oral [temperature], et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li>The value for 'code' <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and <b>MAY</b> be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12). (CONF-413)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.code.codeSystem = '2.16.840.1.113883.6.1' xor self.code.codeSystem = '2.16.840.1.113883.6.96' xor self.code.codeSystem = '2.16.840.1.113883.6.12'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The methodCode <b>SHALL NOT</b> conflict with the method inherent in code (CONF-415)<ul><li>UNIMPLEMENTABLE</li></ul></li>
<li>Where value is a physical quantity, the unit of measure <b>SHALL</b> be expressed using a valid Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) expression. (CONF-417)<ul><li>UNIMPLEMENTABLE</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contain one or more referenceRange to show the normal range of values for the observation result (CONF-419)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.referenceRange-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL NOT</b> contain referenceRange / observationRange / code, as this attribute is not used by the HL7 Clinical Statement or Lab Committee models. (CONF-420)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.referenceRange-&gt;forAll(range : cda::ReferenceRange | range.observationRange.code.code.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-421)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<observation xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd" classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31"/>
  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13"/>
  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2"/>
  <id root="1079599911"/>
  <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
  <statusCode code="completed"/>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2011"/>
    <high value="2011"/>
  </effectiveTime>
  <interpretationCode code="Value"/>
  <methodCode code="Value"/>
  <targetSiteCode code="323667547"/>
</observation>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
