<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>General Header Constraints - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>null</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="null"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This section describes constraints that apply to the H and P Note and to other types of CDA
documents defined for general exchange. The template defined here should be reused
wherever these general header constraints are applied.</p>
<p>To support communication between the receiver of the document and the patient or any
other person or organization mentioned within it, the elements representing them will
be named.</p>
<p>When name, address, or telecom information is unknown and where these elements are
required to be present, as with CDA conformance if the information is unknown, these
elements will be represented using an appropriate value for the nullFlavor attribute on
the element.</p>
<p>Events occurring at a single point in time that are represented in the Clinical Document
header will in general be precise to the day. These point-in-time events are the time of
creation of the document; the starting time of a participation by an author, data
enterer, authenticator, or legal authenticator; or the starting and ending time of an
encounter.</p>
<p>Within the specification, all telephone numbers are to be encoded using a grammar
which is a restriction on the TEL data type and RFC 2806. It simplifies interchange between applications as
it removes optional URL components found in RFC 2806 that applications typically do
not know how to process, such as ISDN sub-address, phone context, or other dialing
parameters.</p>
<p>Organizations that wish to use OIDs should properly register their OID root and ensure
uniqueness of the OID roots used in identifiers. A large number of mechanisms exist
for obtaining OID roots for free or for a reasonable fee. HL7 maintains an OID registry
page from which organizations may request an OID root under the HL7 OID root. This
page can be accessed at: http://www.hl7.org/oid.</p>
<p>Another useful resource lists the many ways to obtain a registered OID Root for free or
a small fee anywhere in the world and is located at:</p>
<p>http://www.dclunie.com/medical-image-faq/html/part8.html#UIDRegistration.</p>
<p>The manner in which the OID root is obtained is not constrained by this DSTU.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="53576-5" </tt><i>Personal Health Monitoring Report</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>)
<ul><li>Specifies the type of the clinical document.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>confidentialityCode</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the confidentiality assigned to the document. This specification provides no further guidance beyond CDA R2
on documents with respect to the vocabulary used for confidentialityCode, nor
treatment or implementation of confidentiality.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the creation time of the document. All documents
authored by direct input to a computer system should record an effectiveTime that is
precise to the second. When authored in other ways, for example, by filling out a
paper form that is then transferred into an EHR system, the precision of
effectiveTime may be less than to the second.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt>
<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/id element is an instance identifier data type (see HL7 Version 3
Abstract Data in Section 5 REFERENCES). The root attribute is a UUID or OID. The
root uniquely identifies the scope of the extension. The root and extension attributes
uniquely identify the document.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>title</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the local name used for the document.
Note that the title does not need to be the same as the display name provided with the
document type code. For example, the display name provided by LOINC&#174; as an aid in
debugging may be "HISTORY AND PHYSICAL." The title can be localized, as appropriate.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>typeId</b></tt>
<ul><li>The clinical document type ID identifies the constraints imposed by CDA R2 on the
content, essentially acting as a version identifier.</li></ul></li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Author
</li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>dataEnterer</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Data Enterer
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Custodian
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Information Recipient
</li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Legal Authenticator
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authenticator</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Authenticator
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patient, guardianPerson, assignedPerson, maintainingPerson, relatedPerson, intendedRecipient/informationRecipient, associatedPerson, and relatedSubject/subject elements have a name.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patientRole, assignedAuthor, assignedEntity[not(parent::dataEnterer)] and associatedEntity elements have an addr and telecom element.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: All guardian, dataEnterer/assignedEntity, relatedEntity, intendedRecipient, relatedSubject and participantRole elements have an addr and telecom element.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All guardianOrganization, providerOrganization, wholeOrganization, representedOrganization, representedCustodianOrganization, receivedOrganization, scopingOrganization and serviceProviderOrganization elements have name, addr and telecom elements.<ul><li>When name, address, or telecom information is unknown and where these elements are
required to be present, as with CDA conformance if the information is unknown, these
elements will be represented using an appropriate value for the nullFlavor attribute on
the element. Legal values according to this specification come from the HL7 NullFlavor
vocabulary.</li></ul></li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second.</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Telephone numbers match the regular expression pattern tel:\+?[-0-9().]+<ul><li>The telecom element is used to provide a contact telephone number for the various
participants that require it. The value attribute ofthis elements is a URL that specifies
the telephone number, as indicated by the TEL data type.</li><li>All telephone numbers are to be encoded using a restricted form of the tel: URL scheme. 
A telephone number used for voice calls begins with the URL scheme tel:. If the
number is a global phone number, it starts with a plus (+) sign. The remaining number
is made up of the dialing digits and an optional extension and may also contain visual
separators.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one dialing digit is present in the phone number after visual separators are removed.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the telephone number is unknown it is represented using the appropriate flavor of null.<ul><li>There is no way to distinguish between an unknown phone number and an unknown
e-mail or other telecommunications address. Therefore, the following convention will be
used: Any telecom element that uses a flavor of null (has a nullFlavor attribute) is
assumed to be a telephone number, which is the only required telecommunications
address element within this DSTU.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The extension attribute of the typeId element is POCD_HD000040.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.typeId.extension = 'POCD_HD000040'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The id/@root attribute is a syntactically correct UUID or OID.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: UUIDs are represented in the form XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, where each X is a character from the set [A-Fa-f0-9].</li>
<li>OIDs are represented in dotted decimal notation, where each decimal number is either 0, or starts with a nonzero digit. More formally, an OID <b>SHALL</b> be in the form ([0-2])(.([1-9][0-9]*|0))+.<ul><li><p>Organizations that wish to use OIDs should properly register their OID root and ensure
uniqueness of the OID roots used in identifiers. A large number of mechanisms exist
for obtaining OID roots for free or for a reasonable fee. HL7 maintains an OID registry
page from which organizations may request an OID root under the HL7 OID root. This
page can be accessed at: http://www.hl7.org/oid.</p>
<p>Another useful resource lists the many ways to obtain a registered OID Root for free or
a small fee anywhere in the world and is located at:
http://www.dclunie.com/medical-image-faq/html/part8.html#UIDRegistration. </p>
<p>The manner in which the OID root is obtained is not constrained by this DSTU.</p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: OIDs are no more than 64 characters in length.<ul><li>OIDs are limited by this specification to no more than 64 characters in length for
compatibility with other standards and Implementation Guides.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: languageCode has the form nn, or nn-CC.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The nn portion of languageCode is a legal ISO-639-1 language code in lowercase.</li>
<li>The CC portion languageCode, if present, <b>SHALL</b> be an ISO-3166 country code in uppercase.</li>
<li>Both setId and versionNumber <b>SHALL</b> be present or both <b>SHALL</b> be absent.<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/setId element uses the instance identifier (II) data type. The root
attribute is a UUID or OID that uniquely identifies the scope of the identifier, and the
extension attribute is a value that is unique within the scope of the root for the set of
versions of the document. See Document Identification, Revisions, and Addenda in
Section 4.2.3.1 of the CDA Specification for some examples showing the use of the setId
element.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and self.versionNumber.oclIsUndefined())
   xor (not self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and not self.versionNumber.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The @extension and/or @root of setId and id <b>SHALL</b> be different when both are present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (not self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and not self.id.oclIsUndefined())
   implies (self.setId.root &lt;&gt; self.id.root or self.setId.extension &lt;&gt; self.id.extension)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A copyTime element <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present.<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/copyTime element has been deprecated in CDA R2.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.copyTime.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;size() &gt; 0 and self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A patient/birthTime element <b>SHALL</b> be present. The patient/birthTime
element <b>SHALL</b> be precise at least to the year, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise at least to the
day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone. If unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of
null.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   implies (not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.value.oclIsUndefined()
      or not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.nullFlavor.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A patient/administrativeGenderCode element <b>SHALL</b> be present. If
unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of null. Values for
administrativeGenderCode <b>SHOULD</b> be drawn from the HL7 AdministrativeGender
vocabulary.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   implies (not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.code.oclIsUndefined()
      or not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.nullFlavor.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode, raceCode and
ethnicGroupCode <b>MAY</b> be present. If maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode,
raceCode and ethnicGroupCode elements are present, they <b>SHOULD</b> be encoded using
the appropriate HL7 vocabularies.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The guardian element is present when the patient is a minor child.</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The providerOrganization element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.providerOrganization.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The author/time element is present.<ul><li>The author/time element represents the start time of the author's
participation in the creation of the clinical document.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | not author.time.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/id element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | author.assignedAuthor.id-&gt;size() &gt; 0)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: An assignedAuthor element contains at least one assignedPerson
or assignedAuthoringDevice elements.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | not author.assignedAuthor.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined() 
   or not author.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When dataEnterer is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.dataEnterer.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The dataEnterer/time element <b>MAY</b> be present. If present, it represents the starting time of entry of the data.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.dataEnterer.time.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The informant element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.informant-&gt;size() &gt; 0</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>When informant is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson or
relatedEntity/relatedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.informant-&gt;forAll(i : cda::Informant12 | not i.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()
   or not i.relatedEntity.relatedPerson.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider with an assigned role, the
informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the assignedEntity element<ul><li>Assigned health care providers may be a source of information when a document is
created. (e.g., a nurse's aide who provides information about a recent significant health
care event that occurred within an acute care facility.) In these cases, the
assignedEntity element is used.</li></ul></li>
<li>Allowable values for informant/relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be CON,
PRS, CAREGIVER, AGNT or PROV from the RoleClass vocabulary.<ul><li><p>When the informant is a personal relation, that informant is represented in the
relatedEntity element. The code element of the relatedEntity describes the relationship
between the informant and the patient.</p>
<p>The relationship between the informant and the patient needs to be described to help
the receiver of the clinical document understand the information in the document.</p></li></ul></li>
<li>When relatedEntity/@classCode is PRS, values in relatedEntity/code
<b>SHALL</b> come from the HL7 PersonalRelationshipRoleType vocabulary or from
SNOMED, any subtype of "Person in the family" (303071001).</li>
<li>When an informant is an unrelated person not otherwise specified, the
value relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to CON to indicate that this person is a
contact.<ul><li>Individuals with no prior personal relationship to the patient (e.g., a witness to a
significant health care event) may provide information about the patient.</li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider without an assigned role,
the informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of
relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to PROV.<ul><li>A health care provider who does not have an assigned role at the institution may
provide information. To record an informant that does not have an assigned role that
can be represented within the context of the document, the information will be
represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of relatedEntity/@classCode
will be set to PROV.</li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider, the value of relatedEntity/code <b>SHOULD</b> be present and indicate the type of healthcare provider.</li>
<li>The ClinicalDocument/informationRecipient element <b>MAY</b> be present.
When informationRecipient is used, at least one
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/informationRecipient or
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/receivedOrganization <b>SHALL</b> be present.</li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in legalAuthenticator.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.legalAuthenticator.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in an authenticator element.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.authenticator-&gt;forAll(auth : cda::Authenticator | auth.assignedEntity-&gt;forAll(entity : cda::AssignedEntity |
   not entity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second.</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone.</li>
<li>if a template has no templateId (OID) then the templateId <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>typeId</b></tt>
<ul><li>The clinical document type ID identifies the constraints imposed by CDA R2 on the
content, essentially acting as a version identifier.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt>
<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/id element is an instance identifier data type (see HL7 Version 3
Abstract Data in Section 5 REFERENCES). The root attribute is a UUID or OID. The
root uniquely identifies the scope of the extension. The root and extension attributes
uniquely identify the document.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="53576-5" </tt><i>Personal Health Monitoring Report</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>)
<ul><li>Specifies the type of the clinical document.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>title</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the local name used for the document.
Note that the title does not need to be the same as the display name provided with the
document type code. For example, the display name provided by LOINC&#174; as an aid in
debugging may be "HISTORY AND PHYSICAL." The title can be localized, as appropriate.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the creation time of the document. All documents
authored by direct input to a computer system should record an effectiveTime that is
precise to the second. When authored in other ways, for example, by filling out a
paper form that is then transferred into an EHR system, the precision of
effectiveTime may be less than to the second.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>confidentialityCode</b></tt>
<ul><li>Specifies the confidentiality assigned to the document. This specification provides no further guidance beyond CDA R2
on documents with respect to the vocabulary used for confidentialityCode, nor
treatment or implementation of confidentiality.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>recordTarget</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../RecordTarget.dita">Record Target</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Author.dita">Author</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Custodian.dita">Custodian</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Component2.dita">Component2</xref>
</li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Author
</li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>dataEnterer</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Data Enterer
</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Custodian
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Information Recipient
</li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Legal Authenticator
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authenticator</b></tt>, where its type is CDA Authenticator
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patient, guardianPerson, assignedPerson, maintainingPerson, relatedPerson, intendedRecipient/informationRecipient, associatedPerson, and relatedSubject/subject elements have a name.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patientRole, assignedAuthor, assignedEntity[not(parent::dataEnterer)] and associatedEntity elements have an addr and telecom element.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: All guardian, dataEnterer/assignedEntity, relatedEntity, intendedRecipient, relatedSubject and participantRole elements have an addr and telecom element.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All guardianOrganization, providerOrganization, wholeOrganization, representedOrganization, representedCustodianOrganization, receivedOrganization, scopingOrganization and serviceProviderOrganization elements have name, addr and telecom elements.<ul><li>When name, address, or telecom information is unknown and where these elements are
required to be present, as with CDA conformance if the information is unknown, these
elements will be represented using an appropriate value for the nullFlavor attribute on
the element. Legal values according to this specification come from the HL7 NullFlavor
vocabulary.</li></ul></li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second.</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Telephone numbers match the regular expression pattern tel:\+?[-0-9().]+<ul><li>The telecom element is used to provide a contact telephone number for the various
participants that require it. The value attribute ofthis elements is a URL that specifies
the telephone number, as indicated by the TEL data type.</li><li>All telephone numbers are to be encoded using a restricted form of the tel: URL scheme. 
A telephone number used for voice calls begins with the URL scheme tel:. If the
number is a global phone number, it starts with a plus (+) sign. The remaining number
is made up of the dialing digits and an optional extension and may also contain visual
separators.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one dialing digit is present in the phone number after visual separators are removed.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the telephone number is unknown it is represented using the appropriate flavor of null.<ul><li>There is no way to distinguish between an unknown phone number and an unknown
e-mail or other telecommunications address. Therefore, the following convention will be
used: Any telecom element that uses a flavor of null (has a nullFlavor attribute) is
assumed to be a telephone number, which is the only required telecommunications
address element within this DSTU.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The extension attribute of the typeId element is POCD_HD000040.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.typeId.extension = 'POCD_HD000040'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The id/@root attribute is a syntactically correct UUID or OID.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: UUIDs are represented in the form XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, where each X is a character from the set [A-Fa-f0-9].</li>
<li>OIDs are represented in dotted decimal notation, where each decimal number is either 0, or starts with a nonzero digit. More formally, an OID <b>SHALL</b> be in the form ([0-2])(.([1-9][0-9]*|0))+.<ul><li><p>Organizations that wish to use OIDs should properly register their OID root and ensure
uniqueness of the OID roots used in identifiers. A large number of mechanisms exist
for obtaining OID roots for free or for a reasonable fee. HL7 maintains an OID registry
page from which organizations may request an OID root under the HL7 OID root. This
page can be accessed at: http://www.hl7.org/oid.</p>
<p>Another useful resource lists the many ways to obtain a registered OID Root for free or
a small fee anywhere in the world and is located at:
http://www.dclunie.com/medical-image-faq/html/part8.html#UIDRegistration. </p>
<p>The manner in which the OID root is obtained is not constrained by this DSTU.</p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: OIDs are no more than 64 characters in length.<ul><li>OIDs are limited by this specification to no more than 64 characters in length for
compatibility with other standards and Implementation Guides.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: languageCode has the form nn, or nn-CC.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The nn portion of languageCode is a legal ISO-639-1 language code in lowercase.</li>
<li>The CC portion languageCode, if present, <b>SHALL</b> be an ISO-3166 country code in uppercase.</li>
<li>Both setId and versionNumber <b>SHALL</b> be present or both <b>SHALL</b> be absent.<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/setId element uses the instance identifier (II) data type. The root
attribute is a UUID or OID that uniquely identifies the scope of the identifier, and the
extension attribute is a value that is unique within the scope of the root for the set of
versions of the document. See Document Identification, Revisions, and Addenda in
Section 4.2.3.1 of the CDA Specification for some examples showing the use of the setId
element.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and self.versionNumber.oclIsUndefined())
   xor (not self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and not self.versionNumber.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The @extension and/or @root of setId and id <b>SHALL</b> be different when both are present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (not self.setId.oclIsUndefined() and not self.id.oclIsUndefined())
   implies (self.setId.root &lt;&gt; self.id.root or self.setId.extension &lt;&gt; self.id.extension)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A copyTime element <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present.<ul><li>The ClinicalDocument/copyTime element has been deprecated in CDA R2.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.copyTime.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;size() &gt; 0 and self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A patient/birthTime element <b>SHALL</b> be present. The patient/birthTime
element <b>SHALL</b> be precise at least to the year, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise at least to the
day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone. If unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of
null.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   implies (not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.value.oclIsUndefined()
      or not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.nullFlavor.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>A patient/administrativeGenderCode element <b>SHALL</b> be present. If
unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of null. Values for
administrativeGenderCode <b>SHOULD</b> be drawn from the HL7 AdministrativeGender
vocabulary.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   implies (not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.code.oclIsUndefined()
      or not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.nullFlavor.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode, raceCode and
ethnicGroupCode <b>MAY</b> be present. If maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode,
raceCode and ethnicGroupCode elements are present, they <b>SHOULD</b> be encoded using
the appropriate HL7 vocabularies.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The guardian element is present when the patient is a minor child.</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The providerOrganization element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.providerOrganization.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The author/time element is present.<ul><li>The author/time element represents the start time of the author's
participation in the creation of the clinical document.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | not author.time.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/id element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | author.assignedAuthor.id-&gt;size() &gt; 0)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: An assignedAuthor element contains at least one assignedPerson
or assignedAuthoringDevice elements.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;forAll(author : cda::Author | not author.assignedAuthor.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined() 
   or not author.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When dataEnterer is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.dataEnterer.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The dataEnterer/time element <b>MAY</b> be present. If present, it represents the starting time of entry of the data.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.dataEnterer.time.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The informant element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.informant-&gt;size() &gt; 0</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>When informant is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson or
relatedEntity/relatedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.informant-&gt;forAll(i : cda::Informant12 | not i.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()
   or not i.relatedEntity.relatedPerson.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider with an assigned role, the
informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the assignedEntity element<ul><li>Assigned health care providers may be a source of information when a document is
created. (e.g., a nurse's aide who provides information about a recent significant health
care event that occurred within an acute care facility.) In these cases, the
assignedEntity element is used.</li></ul></li>
<li>Allowable values for informant/relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be CON,
PRS, CAREGIVER, AGNT or PROV from the RoleClass vocabulary.<ul><li><p>When the informant is a personal relation, that informant is represented in the
relatedEntity element. The code element of the relatedEntity describes the relationship
between the informant and the patient.</p>
<p>The relationship between the informant and the patient needs to be described to help
the receiver of the clinical document understand the information in the document.</p></li></ul></li>
<li>When relatedEntity/@classCode is PRS, values in relatedEntity/code
<b>SHALL</b> come from the HL7 PersonalRelationshipRoleType vocabulary or from
SNOMED, any subtype of "Person in the family" (303071001).</li>
<li>When an informant is an unrelated person not otherwise specified, the
value relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to CON to indicate that this person is a
contact.<ul><li>Individuals with no prior personal relationship to the patient (e.g., a witness to a
significant health care event) may provide information about the patient.</li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider without an assigned role,
the informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of
relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to PROV.<ul><li>A health care provider who does not have an assigned role at the institution may
provide information. To record an informant that does not have an assigned role that
can be represented within the context of the document, the information will be
represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of relatedEntity/@classCode
will be set to PROV.</li></ul></li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider, the value of relatedEntity/code <b>SHOULD</b> be present and indicate the type of healthcare provider.</li>
<li>The ClinicalDocument/informationRecipient element <b>MAY</b> be present.
When informationRecipient is used, at least one
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/informationRecipient or
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/receivedOrganization <b>SHALL</b> be present.</li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in legalAuthenticator.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.legalAuthenticator.oclIsUndefined() implies not self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in an authenticator element.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.authenticator-&gt;forAll(auth : cda::Authenticator | auth.assignedEntity-&gt;forAll(entity : cda::AssignedEntity |
   not entity.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second.</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone.</li>
<li>if a template has no templateId (OID) then the templateId <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present</li>
</ol>

<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">General Header Constraints</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>null</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
