<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Organization of This Guide</title>
	<body>
		<p>
			The requirements as laid out in the body of this document are subject
			to change per the policy on implementation guides (see section 13.02"
			Draft Standard for Trial Use Documents" within the HL7 Governance and
			Operations Manual,
			<xref format="pdf"
				href="http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/membership/HL7_Governance_and_Operations_Manual.pdf">http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/public/membership/HL7_Governance_and_Operations_Manual.pdf
			</xref>
			).
		</p>
	</body>
	<topic id="templates">
		<title>Templates</title>
		<body>
			<p>Templates are organized by document (see Document Templates), by
				section (see Section Templates), and by clinical statements (see
				Clinical Statement Templates). Within a section, templates are
				arranged hierarchically, where a more specific template is nested
				under the more generic template that it conforms to. See Templates
				by Containment for a listing of the higher level templates by
				containment; the appendix Templates Used in This Guide includes a
				table of all of the templates Organized Hierarchically.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="vocabulary">
		<title>Vocabulary and Value Sets</title>
		<body>
			<p>The Implementation Guide provides definition for the vocabulary items that are 
			needed as content for those elements using coded data types.  The use of coded types, and 
			the precise expression of the valid content of code sets is essential to enable efficient 
			processing of subject data report content, and to allow the proper use of the contained data. Within this
			guide, the vocabulary section documents the various act code values used to define structural elements - to
			identify particular acts or observations.  It also defines the several value sets needed to constrain the 
			semantic content of coded items.  In principle, all the vocabulary needed to support subject data reporting
			would draw on a common set of concepts.  This has been done wherever possible, and the Public Health Information
			Network (PHIN) Vocabulary Access and Distribution System (VADS) is used as the repository and source for
			 the commonly agreed upon vocabulary items.</p>
			 
			 <p>In a nunber of cases, the NCVS edit specifications for data collection allow the entry of "UNKNOWN" to represent
			 the case in which desired information is not available.  This concept is captured, within this implementation guide,
			 through use of the nullFlavor - UNK".</p>
			 
			 <p>Throughout this Implementation Guide, the bindings between coded attributes and the cited value sets are static, and
			 the value sets are versioned as of the date of guide publication.  If it proves necessary to make changes to these value
			 sets, this will be recorded, either through published erata, or through issuing an updated version of the document. </p>
		</body>
	</topic>
</topic>
