<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgement</title>
	<body>
		<p>This guide was produced through the Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) 
			within the US Department of Health and Human Services (HSS).</p>
		<p>The Initiative was carried out within the ONC's Standards and Interoperability
			S&amp;I Framework as the Transition of Care (ToC) Initiative with the goal 
			being to improve the exchange of core clinical information among providers, 
			patients and other authorized entities electronically in support of 
			meaningful use and IOM-identified needs for improvement in the quality of 
			care. for the US Realm.  The scope of this Initiative is as its first priority 
			support for Meaningful Use Stage 1 summary of care (Eligible Provider, 
			Eligible Hospital, and Critical Access Hospital) requirements for transition 
			of care and transition of care to consumer and as a second priority support for
			expected Stage 2 requirements.</p>
		<p>The conformance requirements included here for review were generated from the 
			Model-Driven Health Tools (MDHT)-developed as an open source tool under the 
			auspices of the Veterans Administration, IBM, and the ONC; using the output 
			from the the Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) Consolidation Project, 
			another project carried out within the ONC's Standards and Interoperability 
			S&amp;I Framework, and released through Health Level Seven (HL7).</p>
		<p>This document contains an example of healthcare standards and specifications 
			publication generated from UML models using the OHT Model Drivent Health 
			Tools (MDHT).  Some portions of this document may not be publicly available, 
			but are included for demonstration purposes only, therefore this version of 
			the document is to be treated as CONFIDENTIAL by the project participants.</p>
		<p>This demonstration document contains information from the following sources:
			&#169; 2010 ANSI. This material may be copied without permission from ANSI only if 
			and to the extent that the text is not altered in any fashion and ANSI's 
			copyright is clearly noted.</p>
		<p>SNOMED CT &#174; (http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/) is 
			the registered trademark of the International Health Terminology Standard 
			Development Organization (IHTSDO).</p>
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC &#174; (http://loinc.org). 
			The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2012, 
			Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) 
			Committee and available at no cost under the license at 
			http://loinc.org/terms-of-use.</p>
		<p>Certain materials contained in this Interoperability Specification are reproduced from 
			Health Level Seven (HL7) Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2.0 Consolidated 
			CDA Templates (US Realm. No part of the material may be copied or reproduced 
			in any form outside of the Interoperability Specification documents, including 
			an electronic retrieval system, or made available on the Internet without the 
			prior written permission of Health Level Seven, Inc. 
			(http://www.hl7.org). Copies of standards included 
			in this Interoperability Specification may be purchased from the Health Level Seven, Inc. 
			Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>

	</body>
</topic>
