<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>HL7 Modeling Conventions</title>
	<body>
		<p></p>
	</body>
	
	 <topic id="participations">
    <title>Participations, Roles and Entities</title>
    <body>
      <p>Recording information about the person or organization that participates in an act is an important feature of the
       CDA structure.  To cite the most salient examples, the CDA document header has information about the document author, 
       its custodian, and the associated person - the "record target". Some of the other observations or acts within the
       Implementation Guide, also include participations such as "location".   According to the HL7 Reference Information Model, this
       information is captured in a specific way.  For example, a "Person"", playing the role of "Assigned Entity", participates
   	   in the document as its "Author". In each case, the relevant information is spread across three implementation guide elements: there
   	   is a participation, a role, and an entity.  In some cases, the names are very similar, so that it looks as if information is 
   	   being repeated.
    template. </p>
    </body>
</topic>

 <topic id="multiplicity">
    <title>Multiplicity within Act Relationships and Participations</title>
    <body>
      <p>A key task for the implementation guide is to convey information about which items are optional and which are required.  You can see
      this information next to the elements within the document by viewing the statements of multiplicity, e.g., 0..1, and by reviewing
       the conditional       expressions, SHALL, SHOULD, MAY.  While reviewing the document it is important to keep in mind that much
        information is captured as an observation.  In the typical case, there will be an observation that is associated, as an entry,
         with the document body.  In each case, there is an act relationship class that associates the observation with the document body.
          The relevant multiplicity is captured within the document body section, and shows whether the observation is required or not, and whether
          it repeats.  However, within each observation, the multipicity indicates that, if the observation is present, it must have a value for code,
          for value, for class code, for mood code.
       
     </p>
    </body>
</topic>
</topic>