<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Approach</title>
	<body>
		<p>Use of the MDHT tool set makes it easier to get the desired
		Implementation Guide content into a form that can be presented as a
		document.  At the same time, given the development perspective of the tool
		set, it is also possible to work directly with the set of Java classes
		that are created by the tooling to assist in implementing the application artifacts
		that are needed in order to create and receive compliant XML instances. It is expected
		that the data structures created in the process of building the Implementation Guide will
		be useful to implementers.</p>
		<p>This project supports reusability and ease of data collection
			through a standard data representation harmonized with work developed
			by the CDISC Submission Data Standards Team.  The content of the Implementation
			Guide (IG) draws heavily from CDISC's SDTM Implementation Guide.  That document was used as 
			a source of data items, and for descriptive material to characterize many of the items.
			The content is balloted through Health Level Seven (HL7), and will be
			 accepted by FDA as a recognized format for data submissions.</p>
		<p>This Implementation Guide specifies a standard for electronic
			submission of human clinical trial subject data reports in a 
			Clinical Document Architecture (CDA), Release 2 format.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
