<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Comment - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
<p><lines><i>This module contains a comment to be supplied for any other entry Content Modules.</i></lines></p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId ( C83-[DE-10-CDA-2] ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/Comment.html">IHE Comment</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.2</tt>) (C83-[DE-10-CDA-3])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>author</b></tt> (C83-[DE-10-CDA-4])
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The author of a comment is recorded as specified for authors in the Information Source module.</i></lines></p></li></ul><ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Author</li></ol></li>
<li>Data elements defined elsewhere in the specification <b>SHALL NOT</b> be recorded using the Comments Module. (C83-[DE-10-CDA-1])</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/Comment.html">CCD Comment</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.40</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/Comment.html">IHE Comment</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.2</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF-504)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF-505)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="48767-8" </tt><i>Annotation comment</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC</tt>) (CONF-506, CONF-507)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>text</b></tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="completed" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus</tt>) (CONF-6.3.4.6.8)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>author</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Author</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>author</b></tt> (C83-[DE-10-CDA-4])
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Author</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>The author of a comment is recorded as specified for authors in the Information Source module.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A related statement is made about another section or entry. In CDA the former shall be recorded inside an &lt;entryRelationship&gt; element occurring at the end of the entry. The containing entry is the subject (typeCode='SUBJ') of this comment, which is the inverse of the normal containment structure, thus inversionInd='true'. (CONF-6.3.4.6.3)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The 'text' element contains a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative text section of the CDA, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity. (CONF-6.3.4.6.7)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time of the comment creation is recorded in the 'time' element when the 'author' element is present. (CONF-6.3.4.6.10)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The identifier of the author, and their address and telephone number must be present inside the 'id', 'addr' and 'telecom' elements when the 'author' element is present. (CONF-6.3.4.6.11)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The author's and/or the organization's name must be present when the 'author' element is present. (CONF-6.3.4.6.12)</li>
<li>Data elements defined elsewhere in the specification <b>SHALL NOT</b> be recorded using the Comments Module. (C83-[DE-10-CDA-1])</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >hitsp::Comment</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::act[cda:templateId/@root = ]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>author</entry><entry>author</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Author</entry><entry>C83-[DE-10-CDA-4]</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>comment</entry><entry>comment</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Comment</entry><entry>C32-[CT1-3]</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<act xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <id root="MDHT" extension="4378871"/>
  <code code="661141525"/>
  <text>Text Value</text>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2012"/>
    <high value="2012"/>
  </effectiveTime>
  <author/>
</act>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Comment</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.11</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
