<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Immunization - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[SubstanceAdministration: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.13</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>SubstanceAdministration</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.13"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId (  ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.13"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/Immunization.html">IHE Immunization</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.12</tt>)</li>
<li>The reason for refusal <b>SHALL</b> be coded as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.5.3 No Immunization Reason</li>
<li>Immunizations <b>SHALL</b> be coded using CVX as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.5.1 Vaccines Administered. (C154-[DE-13.06-1])</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/MedicationActivity.html">CCD Medication Activity</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.24</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/Immunization.html">IHE Immunization</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.12</tt>)</li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="SBADM" </tt> with data type ActClass (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (6.3.4.17.2)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF-306)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="IMMUNIZ" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.4 HL7ActCode</tt>) (6.3.4.17.5)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt> (6.3.4.17.7)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (6.3.4.17.8)
</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>routeCode</b></tt>, where the @code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.112 HL7 RouteOfAdministration</tt>) (CONF-309, CONF-310)
</li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>approachSiteCode</b></tt>
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The site where the medication is administered, usually used with IV or topical drugs. The &lt;approachSiteCode> element describes the site of medication administrion. It may be coded
to a controlled vocabulary that lists such sites (e.g., SNOMED-CT). In CDA documents, this
4805 element contains a URI in the value attribute of the &lt;reference> that points to the text in the
narrative identifying the site. In a message, the &lt;originalText> element shall contain the text
identifying the site.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>doseQuantity</b></tt>
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The amount of the medication given. This should be in some known and measurable unit, such as grams, milligrams, et cetera. It may be measured in "administration" units (such as tablets or each), for medications where the strength is relevant. In this case, only the unit count is specified , no units are specified. It may be a range.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>rateQuantity</b></tt>
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The rate is a measurement of how fast the dose is given to the patient over time (e.g., .5 liter / 1 hr), and is often used with IV drugs.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>maxDoseQuantity</b></tt> (CONF-312)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>represents a maximum dose limit</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>consumable</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Consumable.dita">Consumable</xref>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../Consumable.dita">Consumable</xref></li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF-338, CONF-339)
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>SUBJ" </tt><i>SUBJ</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../MedicationSeriesNumberObservation.dita">Medication Series Number Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.46</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF-350)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../MedicationStatusObservation.dita">Medication Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.47</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF-330, CONF-333)
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>SUBJ" </tt><i>SUBJ</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../PatientInstruction.dita">Patient Instruction</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.49</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt> (CONF-313)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Performer2</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>Indicates the person administering a substance.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF-348, CONF-349)
<ol>
<li>Contains <tt><b>@typeCode="</b>CAUS" </tt><i>CAUS</i></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ReactionObservation.dita">Reaction Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.54</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> (CONF-368)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ProductInstance.dita">Product Instance</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.52</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Value for moodCode is "EVN" or "INT" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 ActMood STATIC (CONF-305)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one doseQuantity or rateQuantity. (CONF-311)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: Has one or more associated consents, represented in the CCD Header as ClinicalDocument / authorization / consent. (CONF-314)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-315)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains one or more precondition / Criterion, to indicate that the medication is administered only when the associated (coded or free text) criteria are met. (CONF-327)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains one or more entryRelationship, where the value for @typeCode is "RSON" "Has reason" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-328)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: entryRelationship / @typeCode="RSON" in a medication activity has a target of problem act (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27), problem observation (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.28), or some other clinical statement. (CONF-329)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one consumable, the target of which is a Product template. (CONF-354)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: In a CDA document, the URI given in the value attribute of the &lt;reference&gt; element points to an element in the narrative content that contains the complete text describing the immunization activity.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: CPT-4 codes may be used for immunization procedures</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If negationInd is set to TRUE atleast one comment shall exist that provides an explanation for why the immunization did not take place. Other comments may also be present</li>
<li>The reason for refusal <b>SHALL</b> be coded as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.5.3 No Immunization Reason</li>
<li>Immunizations <b>SHALL</b> be coded using CVX as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.5.1 Vaccines Administered. (C154-[DE-13.06-1])</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >hitsp::Immunization</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::substanceadministration[cda:templateId/@root = ]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>immunization</entry><entry>immunization</entry><entry>1..*</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Immunization</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<substanceadministration xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <id root="MDHT" extension="1569290250"/>
  <statusCode code="completed"/>
  <effectiveTime value="20121102"/>
  <doseQuantity/>
  <rateQuantity/>
  <maxDoseQuantity/>
  <consumable/>
</substanceadministration>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Immunization</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[SubstanceAdministration: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.13</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
