<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Unstructured Or Scanned Document - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.19.1</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.19.1"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
<p><lines><i>Used for documents that implement both HL7 Unstructured Documents and HITSP C62 based on IHE Scanned Documents.</i></lines></p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] templateId (  ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.19.1"</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.cdt.doc/classes/UnstructuredDocument.html">CDT Unstructured Document</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.19.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../UnstructuredDocument.dita">Unstructured Document</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.62.1</tt>)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/MedicalDocument.html">IHE Medical Document</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.1.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ScannedDocument.html">IHE Scanned Document</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../UnstructuredDocument.dita">Unstructured Document</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.62.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.cdt.doc/classes/GeneralHeaderConstraints.html">CDT General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.3</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.cdt.doc/classes/UnstructuredDocument.html">CDT Unstructured Document</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.19.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF-HP-21)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>Specifies the type of the clinical document.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>confidentialityCode</b></tt>
<ul><li><p><lines><i>If the confidentialityCode cannot be determined for an Unstructured Document instance, the HL7 code "N" (normal confidentiality) is recommended.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF-UD-11)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The effectiveTime records the time of creation of the original document. If the referenced document is a scan, the date of scan can be recorded in dataEnterer. If the date of creation of the original document is not known, CDA allows the document effectiveTime to have a  nullFlavor.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF-HP-17)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The ClinicalDocument/id element is an instance identifier data type (see HL7 Version 3
Abstract Data in Section 5 REFERENCES). The root attribute is a UUID or OID. The
root uniquely identifies the scope of the extension. The root and extension attributes
uniquely identify the document.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt> (CONF-HP-24)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>title</b></tt> (CONF-HP-22)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>Specifies the local name used for the document.
Note that the title does not need to be the same as the display name provided with the
document type code. For example, the display name provided by LOINC&#174; as an aid in
debugging may be "HISTORY AND PHYSICAL." The title can be localized, as appropriate.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>typeId</b></tt> (CONF-HP-16)
<ul><li><p><lines><i>The clinical document type ID identifies the constraints imposed by CDA R2 on the
content, essentially acting as a version identifier.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>realmCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="US" </tt> (CONF-HP-15)
</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ScanOriginalAuthor.dita">Scan Original Author</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ScanningDevice.dita">Scanning Device</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>dataEnterer</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../ScanDataEnterer.dita">Scan Data Enterer</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.3</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Legal Authenticator</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>Context is left up to the scanning facility to refine in accordance with local policies.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Documentation Of</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>Used to encode the date/time range of the original content. If the original content is representative of a single point in time then the endpoints of the date/time range shall be the same. Information regarding this date/time range shall be included, if it is known. In many cases this will have to be supplied by the operator.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains at least one [1..*] <tt><b>recordTarget</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../RecordTarget.dita">Record Target</xref>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../RecordTarget.dita">Record Target</xref></li></ol></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Custodian.dita">Custodian</xref>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../Custodian.dita">Custodian</xref></li></ol></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../Component2.dita">Component2</xref>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../Component2.dita">Component2</xref></li></ol></li>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Custodian</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>Based on the CDA R2 constraints (Section 4.2.2.3 of the CDA Normative Web Edition.
See Section 5 REFERENCES), the custodian element is required and is the custodian of
the clinical document.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Information Recipient</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i>informationRecipient, when used in the context of a referral or request for consultation,
this records the intended recipient of the information at the time the document is
created. The intended recipient may also be the health chart of the patient, in which
case the receivedOrganization is the scoping organization of that chart.</i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Legal Authenticator</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i><p>The legalAuthenticator element identifies the legal authenticator of the document and
must be present if the document has been legally authenticated. Based on local
practice, clinical documents may be released before legal authentication. This implies
that a clinical document that does not contain this element has not been legally
authenticated.</p>
<p>The act of legal authentication requires a certain privilege be granted to the legal
authenticator depending upon local policy. All clinical documents have the potential for
legal authentication, given the appropriate credentials.</p>
<p>Local policies may choose to delegate the function of legal authentication to a device or
system that generates the clinical document. In these cases, the legal authenticator is
a person accepting responsibility for the document, not the generating device or system.</p></i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li>Contains zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authenticator</b></tt>
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Authenticator</li></ol><ul><li><p><lines><i><p>The authenticator identifies the participant who attested to the accuracy of the
information in the document.</p>
<p>Automated systems, such as a PHR, that allow a clinical document to be generated need to give
special consideration to authentication permissions because the information contained in the
document may come from sources or contain information that the author cannot validate.</p></i></lines></p></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt> (CONF-UD-27)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] CDA Custodian</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The typeId root is 2.16.840.1.113883.1.3 and extension is POCD_HD000040.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one recordTarget.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more author / assignedAuthor / assignedPerson and/or author / assignedAuthor / representedOrganization</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: recordTarget/patientRole/id element includes both the root and the extension attributes.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole/addr element includes at least the country subelement.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole/patient/name element has at least one given subelement and one family subelement.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The recordTarget/patientRole/patient/ administrativeGenderCode element is present.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The recordTarget/patientRole/patient/ birthTime element is present with precision to the year.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains author of type ScanOriginalAuthor to represent original author of this scanned document.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains author element of type ScanningDevice to represent the scanning device and software used to produce the scanned content.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains ScanDataEnterer element to represent the scanner operator who produced the scanned content.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: custodian/assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization/name is present.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: custodian/assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization/addr is present and includes at least the country sub element.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The legalAuthenticator/assignedEntity/id element if known shall include both the root and the extension attributes.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody is present.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the human-readable language of the scanned content is different than that of the wrapper (specified in ClinicalDocument/languageCode), then ClinicalDocument/component/nonXMLBody/languageCode shall be present. Attribute code@code shall be present. Attribute code@codeSystem shall be IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) RFC 3066 in accordance with the HL7 CDA R2 documentation.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text element is present and encoded using xs:base64Binary encoding. Its #CDATA will contain the scanned content.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text@mediaType is 'application/pdf' for PDF, or 'text/plain' for plaintext.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text@representation is B64.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: This construct should not be used when the data are structured.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Each document pertains to one and only one patient.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patient, guardianPerson, assignedPerson, maintainingPerson, relatedPerson, intendedRecipient/informationRecipient, associatedPerson, and relatedSubject/subject elements have a name. (CONF-HP-6)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All patientRole, assignedAuthor, assignedEntity[not(parent::dataEnterer)] and associatedEntity elements have an addr and telecom element. (CONF-HP-7)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: All guardian, dataEnterer/assignedEntity, relatedEntity, intendedRecipient, relatedSubject and participantRole elements have an addr and telecom element. (CONF-HP-8)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: All guardianOrganization, providerOrganization, wholeOrganization, representedOrganization, representedCustodianOrganization, receivedOrganization, scopingOrganization and serviceProviderOrganization elements have name, addr and telecom elements. (CONF-HP-9)</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second. (CONF-HP-10)</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone. (CONF-HP-11)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Telephone numbers match the regular expression pattern tel:\+?[-0-9().]+ (CONF-HP-12)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one dialing digit is present in the phone number after visual separators are removed. (CONF-HP-13)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the telephone number is unknown it is represented using the appropriate flavor of null. (CONF-HP-14)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The extension attribute of the typeId element is POCD_HD000040. (CONF-HP-16)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The id/@root attribute is a syntactically correct UUID or OID. (CONF-HP-17)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: UUIDs are represented in the form XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, where each X is a character from the set [A-Fa-f0-9]. (CONF-HP-18)</li>
<li>OIDs are represented in dotted decimal notation, where each decimal number is either 0, or starts with a nonzero digit. More formally, an OID <b>SHALL</b> be in the form ([0-2])(.([1-9][0-9]*|0))+. (CONF-HP-19)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: OIDs are no more than 64 characters in length. (CONF-HP-20)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: languageCode has the form nn, or nn-CC. (CONF-HP-25)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The nn portion of languageCode is a legal ISO-639-1 language code in lowercase. (CONF-HP-26)</li>
<li>The CC portion languageCode, if present, <b>SHALL</b> be an ISO-3166 country code in uppercase. (CONF-HP-27)</li>
<li>Both setId and versionNumber <b>SHALL</b> be present or both <b>SHALL</b> be absent. (CONF-HP-28)</li>
<li>The @extension and/or @root of setId and id <b>SHALL</b> be different when both are present. (CONF-HP-29)</li>
<li>A copyTime element <b>SHALL NOT</b> be present. (CONF-HP-30)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole element is present. (CONF-HP-31)</li>
<li>A patient/birthTime element <b>SHALL</b> be present. The patient/birthTime
element <b>SHALL</b> be precise at least to the year, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise at least to the
day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone. If unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of
null. (CONF-HP-32)</li>
<li>A patient/administrativeGenderCode element <b>SHALL</b> be present. If
unknown, it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using a flavor of null. Values for
administrativeGenderCode <b>SHOULD</b> be drawn from the HL7 AdministrativeGender
vocabulary. (CONF-HP-33)</li>
<li>The maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode, raceCode and
ethnicGroupCode <b>MAY</b> be present. If maritalStatusCode, religiousAffiliationCode,
raceCode and ethnicGroupCode elements are present, they <b>SHOULD</b> be encoded using
the appropriate HL7 vocabularies. (CONF-HP-34)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The guardian element is present when the patient is a minor child. (CONF-HP-35)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The providerOrganization element is present. (CONF-HP-36)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The author/time element is present. (CONF-HP-37)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/id element is present. (CONF-HP-38)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: An assignedAuthor element contains at least one assignedPerson
or assignedAuthoringDevice elements. (CONF-HP-39)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When dataEnterer is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson element is present. (CONF-HP-40)</li>
<li>The dataEnterer/time element <b>MAY</b> be present. If present, it represents the starting time of entry of the data. (CONF-HP-41)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: The informant element is present. (CONF-HP-42)</li>
<li>When informant is present, an assignedEntity/assignedPerson or
relatedEntity/relatedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present. (CONF-HP-43)</li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider with an assigned role, the
informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the assignedEntity element (CONF-HP-44)</li>
<li>Allowable values for informant/relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be CON,
PRS, CAREGIVER, AGNT or PROV from the RoleClass vocabulary. (CONF-HP-45)</li>
<li>When relatedEntity/@classCode is PRS, values in relatedEntity/code
<b>SHALL</b> come from the HL7 PersonalRelationshipRoleType vocabulary or from
SNOMED, any subtype of "Person in the family" (303071001). (CONF-HP-46)</li>
<li>When an informant is an unrelated person not otherwise specified, the
value relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to CON to indicate that this person is a
contact. (CONF-HP-47)</li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider without an assigned role,
the informant <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the relatedEntity element and the value of
relatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be set to PROV. (CONF-HP-48)</li>
<li>When the informant is a healthcare provider, the value of relatedEntity/code <b>SHOULD</b> be present and indicate the type of healthcare provider. (CONF-HP-49)</li>
<li>The ClinicalDocument/informationRecipient element <b>MAY</b> be present.
When informationRecipient is used, at least one
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/informationRecipient or
informationRecipient/intendedRecipient/receivedOrganization <b>SHALL</b> be present. (CONF-HP-50)</li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in legalAuthenticator. (CONF-HP-51)</li>
<li>The assignedEntity/assignedPerson element <b>SHALL</b> be present in an authenticator element. (CONF-HP-52)</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime,
author/time, dataEnterer/time, legalAuthenticator/time, authenticator/time and
encompassingEncounter/effectiveTime elements <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day, <b>SHALL</b>
include a time zone if more precise than to the day, and <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the
second. (CONF-HP-10)</li>
<li>Times or time intervals found in the asOrganizationPartOf/effectiveTime,
asMaintainedEntity/effectiveTime, relatedEntity/effectiveTime,
serviceEvent/effectiveTime, ClinicalDocument/participant/time,
serviceEvent/performer/time and encounterParticipant/time <b>SHALL</b> be precise at
least to the year, <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the day, and <b>MAY</b> omit time zone. (CONF-HP-11)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A patientRole element contains an id element. (CONF-UD-17)</li>
<li>An assignedAuthor element contains an addr element. If addr is unknown it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the appropriate flavor of null. (CONF-UD-25)</li>
<li>An assignedAuthor element contains a telecom element. If telecom is unknown it <b>SHALL</b> be represented using the appropriate flavor of null. (CONF-UD-26)</li>
<li>The custodian element <b>SHALL</b> contain an assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization element. (CONF-UD-28)</li>
<li>A representedCustodianOrganization element <b>SHALL</b> contain an id element. (CONF-UD-29)</li>
<li>A representedCustodianOrganization element <b>SHALL</b> contain a name element. (CONF-UD-30)</li>
<li>A representedCustodianOrganization element <b>SHALL</b> contain a telecom element. (CONF-UD-31)</li>
<li>A representedCustodianOrganization element <b>SHALL</b> contain an addr element. (CONF-UD-32)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains component/nonXMLBody/text element. (CONF-UD-34)</li>
<li>The text element <b>SHALL</b> either contain a reference element with a value attribute, or have a representation attribute with the value of B64, a mediaType attribute, and contain the media content (CONF-UD-35)</li>
<li>The value of @mediaType <b>SHALL</b> be drawn from the value set 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.7.1 SupportedFileFormats STATIC 20100512 (CONF-UD-36)</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >hitsp::UnstructuredOrScannedDocument</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::clinicaldocument[cda:templateId/@root = ]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody></tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
  <id root="MDHT" extension="2102494286"/>
  <code code="1839748251"/>
  <title>TEXT FOR TITLE</title>
  <effectiveTime/>
  <confidentialityCode code="291776330"/>
  <languageCode code="Code forlanguageCode"/>
  <recordTarget>
    <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
    <patientRole/>
  </recordTarget>
  <author>
    <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
    <time/>
    <assignedAuthor/>
  </author>
  <custodian/>
  <component/>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Unstructured Or Scanned Document</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.19.1</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
