<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Consumable Material - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Consumable: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.58</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Consumable</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.58"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This resusable structure captures information for medicinal substances tested in trials and/or substances consumed by trial subjects.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>@typeCode</b>="CSM" </tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>manufacturedProduct</b></tt> <p><i>Information for the substance that is playing the role of medication.</i></p><ol><li> This manufacturedProduct <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="MANU" </tt></li><li> This manufacturedProduct Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>manufacturedMaterial</b></tt> <p><i>An association to the material substance.</i></p><ol><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="MMAT" </tt></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@determinerCode</b>="KIND" </tt></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><p><i>The code attribute captures information about the nature of the drug, medication or therapy.  Within SDMT, medication information can appear as a concommitant medication, as the study medication within the exposure domain, or as a substance that is used. {SDTM: CMTRT, CMMODIFY, CMDECOD, EXTRT, SUTRT, SUMODIFY, SUDECOD]</i></p></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>lotNumberText</b></tt><p><i>The lot number is relevant when information regarding the study treatment is provided.  [SDTM: EXLOT]</i></p></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The vebatim medication name is captured as the original text property within the material.code attribute.</li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The standardized or dictionary-derived text description of the medication is captured as the code property of the translation within the material.code attribute.  Code system OID must be valued as well.</li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the text description is modified to facilitate coding, the modified name is captured as the original text property of the translation within the material.code attribute.</li></ol> <p><i>An association to the material substance.</i></p></li></ol>
</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>@typeCode</b>="CSM" </tt>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>manufacturedProduct</b></tt> <p><i>Information for the substance that is playing the role of medication.</i></p><ol><li> This manufacturedProduct <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="MANU" </tt></li><li> This manufacturedProduct Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>manufacturedMaterial</b></tt> <p><i>An association to the material substance.</i></p><ol><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="MMAT" </tt></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial Contains exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@determinerCode</b>="KIND" </tt></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt><p><i>The code attribute captures information about the nature of the drug, medication or therapy.  Within SDMT, medication information can appear as a concommitant medication, as the study medication within the exposure domain, or as a substance that is used. {SDTM: CMTRT, CMMODIFY, CMDECOD, EXTRT, SUTRT, SUMODIFY, SUDECOD]</i></p></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>lotNumberText</b></tt><p><i>The lot number is relevant when information regarding the study treatment is provided.  [SDTM: EXLOT]</i></p></li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The vebatim medication name is captured as the original text property within the material.code attribute.</li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The standardized or dictionary-derived text description of the medication is captured as the code property of the translation within the material.code attribute.  Code system OID must be valued as well.</li><li> This manufacturedMaterial <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the text description is modified to facilitate coding, the modified name is captured as the original text property of the translation within the material.code attribute.</li></ol> <p><i>An association to the material substance.</i></p></li></ol>
</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >sdtm::Consumable Material</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::consumable[cda:templateId/@root = 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.20]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>nullFlavor</entry><entry>@nullFlavor</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>NullFlavor</entry><entry></entry><entry> ASKU</entry></row> 
<row><entry>typeCode</entry><entry>@typeCode</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>ParticipationType</entry><entry></entry><entry> CSM</entry></row> 
<row><entry>realmCode</entry><entry>realmCode</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CS</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>templateId</entry><entry>templateId</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>II</entry><entry></entry><entry> 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.20</entry></row> 
<row><entry>manufacturedProduct</entry><entry>manufacturedProduct</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ManufacturedProduct</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>medication</entry><entry>medication</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Medication</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>typeId</entry><entry>typeId</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>InfrastructureRootTypeId</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<consumable xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd" typeCode="CSM">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.20"/>
  <manufacturedProduct classCode="MANU">
    <manufacturedMaterial classCode="MMAT" determinerCode="KIND">
      <code code="1320565665"/>
      <lotNumberText>TEXT FOR LOT NUMBER TEXT</lotNumberText>
    </manufacturedMaterial>
  </manufacturedProduct>
</consumable>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Consumable Material</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[Consumable: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.58</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
