<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Supplemental Value - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.96</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.96"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>The template will allow the addition of supplemental information to a particular data item.  This general purpose structure makes it possible to capture unexpected (non-standard) data items, and to relate them to the appropriate record within one of the previously defined domains.  It is is captured as a template to facilitate its reuse as a generic capability.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="OBS" </tt><i>Observation</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:1357)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF:1358)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:1359), where the @code <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/SupplementalValueSet.dita">Supplemental Value Set</xref> locally defined</tt><b> STATIC</b> (CONF:1569)
<ul><li>A code that indicates the type of information being provided.  [SDTM: QNAM, QLABEL],  [SEND: QNAM, QLABEL]</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt> (CONF:1361)
<ul><li>The data value that is being provided.  Note, since data type of the data is not predefined, it must be indicated in the instance.  Similarly, if the data is coded, the list of valid codes must be defined.  [SDTM: QVAL], [SEND: QVAL]</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF:1362) <p><i>Information on the source of the supplemental information.</i></p><ol><li> This entryRelationship <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@typeCode</b>="COMP" </tt> (CONF:1364)</li><li> This entryRelationship <b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>observation</b></tt> (CONF:1365) <ol><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="OBS" </tt><i>Observation</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:1366)</li><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF:1369)</li><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:1367)<tt><b>/@code</b>="DOtbd" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1 NCI Thesaurus</tt>) (CONF:1368)<p><i>A fixed code value that indicates the observation conveys information about the origin of the data.</i></p></li><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt> with data type CD (CONF:1370), where the @code <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/DataOriginType.dita">Data Origin Type</xref> CXXXXX</tt><b> STATIC</b> (CONF:1371)<p><i>An indication of the origin of the data.  Example values include CRF, ASSIGNED, Derived.  [SDTM: QORIG], [SEND: QORIG]</i></p></li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> (CONF:1363)
<ul><li>Identification of the party responsible for (author of) the supplemental information.</li></ul><ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../StudyFindingEvaluator.dita">Study Finding Evaluator</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.84</tt>)</li></ol></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="OBS" </tt><i>Observation</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:1357)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF:1358)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:1359), where the @code <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/SupplementalValueSet.dita">Supplemental Value Set</xref> locally defined</tt><b> STATIC</b> (CONF:1569)
<ul><li>A code that indicates the type of information being provided.  [SDTM: QNAM, QLABEL],  [SEND: QNAM, QLABEL]</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt> (CONF:1361)
<ul><li>The data value that is being provided.  Note, since data type of the data is not predefined, it must be indicated in the instance.  Similarly, if the data is coded, the list of valid codes must be defined.  [SDTM: QVAL], [SEND: QVAL]</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>entryRelationship</b></tt> (CONF:1362) <p><i>Information on the source of the supplemental information.</i></p><ol><li> This entryRelationship <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@typeCode</b>="COMP" </tt> (CONF:1364)</li><li> This entryRelationship <b>SHALL</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>observation</b></tt> (CONF:1365) <ol><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="OBS" </tt><i>Observation</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:1366)</li><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@moodCode</b>="EVN" </tt><i>Event</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 HL7ActMood</tt>) (CONF:1369)</li><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:1367)<tt><b>/@code</b>="DOtbd" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1 NCI Thesaurus</tt>) (CONF:1368)<p><i>A fixed code value that indicates the observation conveys information about the origin of the data.</i></p></li><li> This observation <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>value</b></tt> with data type CD (CONF:1370), where the @code <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> <xref href="../../terminology/DataOriginType.dita">Data Origin Type</xref> CXXXXX</tt><b> STATIC</b> (CONF:1371)<p><i>An indication of the origin of the data.  Example values include CRF, ASSIGNED, Derived.  [SDTM: QORIG], [SEND: QORIG]</i></p></li></ol> </li></ol>
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> (CONF:1363)
<ol>
<li>Contains exactly one [1..1] <xref href="../StudyFindingEvaluator.dita">Study Finding Evaluator</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.84</tt>)</li></ol><ul><li>Identification of the party responsible for (author of) the supplemental information.</li></ul></li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="8" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" /><colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" /><colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >sdtm::Supplemental Value</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col7" >cda::observation[cda:templateId/@root = 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.96]/</entry>  </row>  <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Cardinality</entry><entry>Severity</entry><entry>Nullable</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>Conformance</entry><entry>Value(s)</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>classCode</entry><entry>@classCode</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>ActClassObservation</entry><entry>CONF:1357</entry><entry> ALRT</entry></row> 
<row><entry>moodCode</entry><entry>@moodCode</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>x_ActMoodDocumentObservation</entry><entry>CONF:1358</entry><entry> DEF</entry></row> 
<row><entry>negationInd</entry><entry>@negationInd</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>Boolean</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>nullFlavor</entry><entry>@nullFlavor</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>NO</entry><entry>NullFlavor</entry><entry></entry><entry> ASKU</entry></row> 
<row><entry>code</entry><entry>code</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CD</entry><entry>CONF:1359</entry><entry> null</entry></row> 
<row><entry>derivationExpr</entry><entry>derivationExpr</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ST</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>effectiveTime</entry><entry>effectiveTime</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>IVL_TS</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>id</entry><entry>id</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>II</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>interpretationCode</entry><entry>interpretationCode</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CE</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>languageCode</entry><entry>languageCode</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CS</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>methodCode</entry><entry>methodCode</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CE</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>priorityCode</entry><entry>priorityCode</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CE</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>realmCode</entry><entry>realmCode</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CS</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>repeatNumber</entry><entry>repeatNumber</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>IVL_INT</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>statusCode</entry><entry>statusCode</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CS</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>targetSiteCode</entry><entry>targetSiteCode</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>CD</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>templateId</entry><entry>templateId</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>II</entry><entry></entry><entry> 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.96</entry></row> 
<row><entry>text</entry><entry>text</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ED</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>value</entry><entry>value</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ANY</entry><entry>CONF:1361</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>author</entry><entry>author</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Author</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>entryRelationship</entry><entry>entryRelationship</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>EntryRelationship</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>informant</entry><entry>informant</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Informant12</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>origenAssociation</entry><entry>origenAssociation</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>originAssociation</entry><entry>CONF:1362</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>participant</entry><entry>participant</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Participant2</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>performer</entry><entry>performer</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Performer2</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>precondition</entry><entry>precondition</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Precondition</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>reference</entry><entry>reference</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Reference</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>referenceRange</entry><entry>referenceRange</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>ReferenceRange</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>specimen</entry><entry>specimen</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Specimen</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>study Finding Evaluator</entry><entry>study Finding Evaluator</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Study Finding Evaluator</entry><entry>CONF:1363</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>subject</entry><entry>subject</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>Subject</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>typeId</entry><entry>typeId</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry></entry><entry>YES</entry><entry>InfrastructureRootTypeId</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<observation xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd" classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.96"/>
  <id root="787503609" extension="MDHT"/>
  <code codeSystem="locally defined" codeSystemName="Supplemental Value Type"/>
  <effectiveTime>
    <low value="2012"/>
    <high value="2012"/>
  </effectiveTime>
  <participant>
    <participantRole classCode="ASSIGNED">
      <templateId root="null"/>
      <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
    </participantRole>
  </participant>
  <entryRelationship typeCode="COMP">
    <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
      <code code="DOtbd" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.3.26.1.1" codeSystemName="NCI Thesaurus"/>
    </observation>
  </entryRelationship>
</observation>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Supplemental Value</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.23.96</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
